
11/5/15
i'm thankful for the nice conversation i had with mom and dad last night on the occasion
of dad's birthday. i'm thankful that even though the phone was dropping out during my
call with mom because her cell booster was on the fritz, we were able to have a nice
conversation. i'm grateful that even though dad had a shitty day, he was able to feel better
and enjoy some of his birthday evening. i'm thankful that even though the viewmaster vr
viewer thing i bought him did not work properly, there were apps in the app store for him
to play with. i'm thankful that the fancy monster-shaped chocolates d sent arrived on his
birthday so he had something to open, and i'm grateful that even though the chocolates
melted in transit, they were still delicious.
i'm thankful for the discovery that my struggles to keep up with other bikers and the
occasional knee pain i experienced were not (or at least, not completely) because i’m not
good at biking, but because my bike seat was set too low. i'm thankful to have learned
from a magazine's website that if you can touch the ground with both feet while
straddling your bike seat, the seat is set too low. i'm thankful that i didn't need any tools
to reset the seat after work yesterday, that all i needed to do was unclamp it and pull it up
a bit higher, and i'm thankful for the way i glided home. i'm thankful that this experience
continues to be so rewarding, and thankful that i've finally picked it up again after so
many years.
i'm thankful that even though i left the roasted root vegetables i was reheating in the oven
for too long, because i was distracted by my conversation with mom, they still tasted good
and, in fact, maybe even tasted better. i’m thankful for carrots and broccoli and
cauliflower and brussels sprouts. i'm thankful that i was able to save them at the last
minute from burning. i'm thankful for mediocre fish farm cod, which is probably really
bad for me and the world. i'm thankful for the doenjang i plopped onto the top of the
filets before I sealed the pyrex dish as a hail mary flavoring idea, even if it did not melt as
i had hoped and was a bit too salty.
i'm thankful that my doctor called in sick an hour before our appointment this morning,
because i did not particularly want to go to the doctor, and i’m thankful that i’m in good
enough health that it doesn't matter that this appointment had to be rescheduled, and i’m
thankful that i have good insurance and am able to go to the doctor when necessary. i'm
thankful for [redacted]. i'm thankful that my meeting at work this morning went well and
that i went all day yesterday without feeling depressed or irritated at all. i'm thankful that
even though my brother started smoking again, which is sad, he wants to stop, which is
something to be thankful for. i'm thankful that i could wear short sleeves and no jacket
and i'm grateful for the weather today, what may be the last warm day of the year.

11/6/15
i’m thankful for grimes, writhing in the guggenheim.
i’m thankful that i was able to help the student who was crying yesterday in the office
because of stress induced by complicated bureaucracy. i’m always thankful for
opportunities to help students not feel scared or anxious in the department office,
because i often felt that way when i was a student in offices. i’m thankful for one of my
favorite faculty members, who came out of her office to tell me what a good job i did after
the student left, which made me feel good.
i’m thankful for d, who helped me search the house this morning for my misplaced
iphone. i’m thankful we finally found the iphone after searching for too long (sitting on
the closet shelf next to a stack of black pants, into which it faded chameleonically). i’m
thankful for her joyful laughter at the fact that i would put my phone in such a ridiculous
place and thankful for a moment of tickling her to extract more laughter.
i’m thankful that d chopped and roasted the vegetables for last night's dinner and did a
better job of both than i, rushing, would have done. i’m thankful that we ate the last of
the plastic-y frozen cod last night and that we are having kielbasa tonight, which will be
much better.
i’m thankful for d's joy at collecting enough bells (the currency in animal crossing) to buy
a bridge for her virtual village, which she is thankful for because of the way it will speed
traversal of the map. i’m thankful for the book the whisperers by orlando figes, which
continues to be horrible and fascinating. i’m thankful for vocal harmonies and fuzz bass.
i’m thankful for “california” and “kill v. maim” the most so far.
i’m thankful that even though i didn’t sleep very well, i did at least get four or five hours.
i’m thankful that i had an interesting dream, in which i was renting a cavernous country
house from a professor and was surprised by an unexpected group of houseguests, who at
first annoyed me, as, in the dream, i was expecting solitude, but who turned out to be very
good houseguests who made delicious treats and with whom i got joyfully innocently
naked.
i’m thankful that yesterday, i didn't feel irritated or depressed all day. i’m thankful it
stopped raining before i had to bike to work this morning and that it is not supposed to
rain this weekend. i’m thankful for the unashamed sincerity of others, though i am also
thankful for irony.
11/7/15
i'm thankful for the cold air that blew in during the night and surrounded the bed.
i'm thankful for the early birthday presents that d gave me, all of which are wonderful: a
squeakless stool for my recording room, a midi sustain pedal, a two gallon fermentation
jar with a ceramic spigot, and a heavy duty rain protection suit. i'm thankful that i was
able to raise the height of the table in my recording room to match the height of the new
stool. i'm thankful for the way the stool silently swivels. i'm thankful that the stool was
easy to put together, and i'm thankful that even though i couldn't get one of the screws in
to secure the seat, it's still very stable.
i'm thankful for the grimes album still. i'm thankful that every track is unique and yet the
album feels cohesive. i'm thankful for the way she pushes towards pop without losing her
individual identity. i'm thankful for her guitar playing, which is an inspiration. i’m
thankful for the pitchfork headline "Matmos Announce New Album Made From Washing
Machine Sounds, Share Excerpt," which made me laugh.
i'm thankful for an unexpected long text from my old friend nl, reminiscing about a time i
told her about wearing leather pants on a very hot day. i'm thankful that rather than
blowing her off, i sent her a long text describing nice times we spent together, like when
she and jk read me an insane long text that an asshole we went to grad school with had
sent both of them, their voices overlapping in the sunset as we sat at an outdoor table on
a perfect spring evening.
i'm thankful for master of none. i'm thankful that even though the directing seemed a
little off in the first episode, the timing in need of some trims, we stuck with it, and i'm
thankful for how unique and moving the second episode was. i'm thankful, like everyone
else, for the performance of aziz's father.
i'm thankful it's saturday, the greatest of all days.
11/8/15
i’m thankful for the tiny rainbows formed by our front window at certain times on certain
days. i’m thankful for a sunny weekend.
i’m thankful for the very nice sleep that i had last night.
i’m thankful for facetiming with mom and dad on our bike ride yesterday afternoon to
show off the iphone bike mount that d got me, and i am thankful that though they were
on the clothing optional beach, they kept things above the neck and mostly switched to
the front facing camera to show me the sky over miami.
i’m thankful for discounted gorgonzola cheese. i’m thankful for slightly overripe pear. i’m
thankful for shin ramen, which we hadn't had in months (though i used to eat it quite
regularly) and which is good. i’m thankful for a second glass of red wine.
i’m thankful that though the usb hub i plug my music equipment started to destroy itself,
it produced a burning plastic smell so i could realize that was happening and could unplug
it before it set on fire. i’m thankful i do not have to take my computer to the service
provider again.
i’m thankful for [redacted].
i’m thankful for a beautiful bright yellow tree that we saw in someone's yard while driving
home from the supermarket yesterday afternoon. i’m thankful for how vibrant and alive it
seemed amid all the crunchy browns around it. i’m thankful that as we continued driving,
i saw more of the same kind of trees, in a sensation of wonderful instant deja vu.
i’m thankful for the bike ride that d and i had yesterday through the beautiful morning.
i'm thankful that even though it makes d frustrated sometimes, she still went on the ride
with me because she knows that i love it. i'm thankful for the ride i took this morning to
the lake north of town. i'm thankful for the speed i felt on the hill that winds down
through the forest to the lake. i'm thankful that i did not make myself feel bad when i was
unable to scale the hill on the return trip and had to get off my bike and walk it.
i’m thankful for jenn frank, a writer i hadn't read until yesterday. i'm thankful for her
review of animal crossing: new leaf, which d read aloud to me as i played a mediocre level
in the new call of duty game. i'm thankful for the beauty and humor of the review and the
way it helped me to better understand how much d loves the game. i’m thankful that
there is lots more of her writing to read and i'm thankful that, even though shitty people
conspired to make her stop writing, she is still out there and living her life.
i am thankful for a warm bath, which is where i am going after i send this.
11/9/15
i’m thankful for coasting. i’m thankful, after cranking my bike to make it through a light
or keep up with traffic, for every foot that i travel by inertia alone. i’m thankful for inertia,
the force that requires no exertion.
i’m thankful for a good night's sleep, which i mostly had last night. i’m thankful that
though one of our traps caught a mouse in the night, d woke me up rather than suffering
to the sound of it like she did last time. i’m thankful that i was able to kill it quickly, with
my foot on the concrete path behind our house. i’m thankful for the thick ziploc bags
which i wrapped its body in. i’m thankful that i have enough to eat, unlike the mouse,
who was resorting to eating silicon cupcake liners because we secured all of our exposed
food after the last mouse.
i’m thankful for silicon cupcake liners, for the sheer ridiculousness of their existence.
i’m thankful for a sad essay i read on medium about the death of the author's father and
airbnb. i’m thankful i focused and read the whole thing. i’m thankful for the solidity of
the writer's language and of his arguments.
i’m thankful for the good meditation session i had yesterday afternoon, after not
meditating for a few days. i’m thankful for the way the meditation made me feel lighter
inside. i’m thankful for sun salutations.
i’m thankful for the terrible preload mechanism for call of duty: black ops 3, which i
rented from redbox. i’m thankful that it was a relatively opaque mechanism, requiring a
second set of lengthy installations after it had already supposedly "installed." i am
thankful that waiting so long for the game to work cooled my desire to play it (which
makes me think of waiting periods for guns) so that when it finally worked, i only played
for a half hour or so. i’m thankful that it was a fun half hour or so, but i am thankful that i
spent the rest of my time on sunday on other better things than that game.
i’m thankful for snuggling on our couch under a blanket after dinner, watching master of
none. i’m thankful for the way that show not only focuses on diversity in a numbers and
quotas sort of way (not that that’s not important), but also in terms of spirit. i’m thankful
for the character of colin salmon and for the quiet moment watching his dominoes fall.
i’m thankful that even though i made a mistake at work, it wasn't that big of a mistake.
i’m thankful to let stress about work fall away because it is not useful or productive. i’m
thankful that i am at a point where i can make choices like this about my feelings.
i’m thankful for my work friend t, who i surprised this morning by wearing a mask of a
cartoon wolf that i cut laboriously with a pair of dull scissors on friday afternoon.
11/10/15
i’m thankful for [redacted].
i’m thankful that the bee that landed on the corner of my mouth while i was doing yoga in
the arboretum did not sting me. i’m thankful for all living bees, especially those that don't
sting me.
i’m thankful for our next door neighbors' witch-house/darkwave/gothcore band, even
though at first i found the sound of their rehearsals intrusive and annoying. i’m thankful
for the chance to hear their band hone their craft and develop their sound. i’m thankful
for the rapid arpeggiated syncopations their bassist uses at the beginning and end of bars
and how the rest is locked into a tight groove. i’m thankful that mostly all i can hear is the
bass, because of the physics of sound and the thickness of the walls and the space
between the rehearsal and my ears, but i’m also thankful for moments like last night in
the bath, when i could hear the faint echo of an ian curtis-ish vocal and a guitar feedback
apocalypse.
i’m thankful for my next door neighbor on the other side, who i see through the edward
hopper light of his windows as we both rummage around in our kitchens in our
underwear at 6:30 in the morning.
i’m thankful for leigh alexander always and for the essay "the new intimacy economy" in
particular.
i’m thankful for the walking dead, which is the television equivalent of a fast food
hamburger, with all the good and ill that entails. i am thankful for my tuesday morning
chats about it with j at work.
i’m thankful that i noticed so many girls wearing birkenstocks and socks on campus
yesterday—i'm thankful because it was so funny to me, that every corner i would turn, i
would see another girl wearing birkenstocks and socks. i'm thankful that when i
mentioned this to d, she found an article about it from last year in the daily mail and said
that indiana was a year behind trend.
i’m thankful for the way kanye pronounces "handkerchief" as "handker-CHIIIFE" in
"sanctified." i am thankful for all false rhymes.
i’m thankful for being reminded of how good whiskey is, even if i drank a little too much
of it last night.
11/11/15
i’m thankful i have a job interview tomorrow, even though that has me more stressed
than i have been in a long time. i’m thankful that filling out the application was not as
futile as it felt when i filled it out. i’m thankful that i have a job, so that it will be okay if i
don't get this job, and i’m thankful that even if i don't get this job (or if this job isn't right
for me) i'm getting good experience and maybe "building my network" by doing this
interview that has me more stressed than i have been in a long time.
i’m thankful for meditation. i’m thankful for learning new things about mindfulness
meditation from this book, which i downloaded on a whim and which is pegged in a way
that i find obnoxious, but which actually has helpful information and techniques that i
hadn't learned before. i’m thankful that though i woke up at 4:30 this morning
thrumming with stress about my job interview tomorrow, i was able to use things i
learned while reading last night in a way that was at least partially successful at calming
me down.
i’m thankful that alexis bledel (i.e. rory) is married to vincent kartheiser (i.e. pete). i’m
thankful that they are happy that she is pregnant, though i must admit i worry about the
impact that her pregnancy will have on the gilmore girls reunion. i’m thankful for kelly
conaboy.
i’m thankful for our friends k and j, who are taking us out to a local distillery for drinks
and charcuterie tonight.
i’m thankful for fallout 4, which d gave me as an early birthday present. i’m thankful that
d sat on the couch with me as i played it, even though first person shooters sometimes
make her nauseous. i’m thankful that it is very fun so far (i have only played for 1.5-2
hours). i’m thankful to enter that world and thankful for the wit and passion with which
it is built.
i’m thankful for the two girls who were sitting in lotus position at the gym yesterday,
doing what i can only describe as very precise arm flapping. i’m thankful that even though
they were blushing and probably felt silly, they kept doing it.
i’m thankful for superfluous emails from students which exist only to communicate
pleasantries and good vibes.
i’m thankful for "pin," which i think, after repeated listening, is my favorite song on art
angels.
11/12/15
i'm thankful that my interview went well (or, at least, felt like it went well). i'm thankful
that i prepared answers to the right questions and that i was able to say them rather than
read them. i'm thankful that the guy who interviewed me seemed really cool and nice and
made me really excited about the job. i'm thankful that for maybe the first time in an
interview, i asked questions that actually provided me with useful information. i'm
thankful, even if don't get the job, because it was a good experience and i feel like i
learned a lot and am more confident in myself for future interviews. i'm thankful that a
video interview wasn't as awkward as i thought it was going to be. i'm thankful, most
thankful, that the interview is over, and i'm thankful for the whiskey that i drank after it,
and for the pizza that we decided to order on a whim. i'm thankful that domino's makes
the best cheap delivery pizza here, and i'm thankful that we discovered their garlic crust,
which is essential to the previous thank you.
i'm thankful for the amazing time we had with our friends at the distillery last night. i'm
thankful that even though we were forced to sit outside because of the restaurant’s baby
policy, that was actually better because we had privacy and a heat lamp and ambience. i'm
thankful for delicious cocktails and free samples and a delicious house-made jam. i'm
thankful for the most fun conversations about everything and anything from planning
hook ups for people we know to d never having seen star wars to a time in a grad school
seminar where a doc student basically read aloud erotica he had written which included
the phrases "slow circles around the clitoris." i'm thankful their baby is very cute and easy
to get along with. i'm thankful that they are our friends and like hanging out with us.
i'm thankful for [redacted], which helped me to be more confident and not as stressed.
i'm thankful that my freelance blog post went up today. i'm thankful for the work my
editors did to make it better and i'm thankful i wasn't precious about being edited the way
that i have been in the past. i'm thankful i have learned to find some distance between
myself and the things that i do and make. i am thankful that my ego is smaller than it was
in the past, but i'm also thankful it's not dead, which it felt like it was for a while.
i'm thankful for fallout 4, which is just getting better and makes me feel temporarily like
the alternate version of myself who was playing it the last time i was playing it, years ago,
rather than the adult person with adult responsibilities i am now.
i'm thankful for white tea, which is subtle and delicious. i'm thankful that it’s finally cold
enough that i occasionally want some hot tea, but not so cold that cold tea isn't also
refreshing and enjoyable.
i'm thankful that tomorrow is friday and that even though it will suck that i will have a lot
to catch up with at work, it will also be good because that will make the day go by quickly.
i'm thankful that at the end of the day tomorrow, it will be the weekend.
11/13/15
[no entry]
11/14/15
i'm thankful that i did not make myself feel shitty for not writing thank you notes
yesterday. i'm thankful that i am writing thank you notes now.
i'm thankful for spencer pratt and heidi montag. i'm thankful for their snapchats, which i
learned about from this thoughtful profile in complex recently. i'm thankful for spencer's
addictions to crystals and burritos. i'm thankful for the complex blend of sadness and
bravado that drives his snap content. i'm thankful for the way that his work acknowledges
the drudgery and repetition of the everyday but also finds joy in it. i'm thankful for heidi's
quieter snaps, for her sweetness, and for the joy she takes in singing her songs. i'm
thankful for their giant glasses of wine. i'm thankful that a direct line to these two, which
is something i dreamed of when i was twenty two, now exists, and i'm thankful can enjoy
it without being obsessed with it.
i'm thankful for fallout 4, which i'm still playing and will probably be for a while. i'm
thankful that, unlike other AAA games, it doesn't hold your hand or put an icon telling
you where everything is and what everything does. i'm thankful for the sense of discovery
that allows, which drove my quest up through a dilapidated high-rise apartment complex
filled with super mutants to the penthouse, sheared open to the air by explosions, where i
rescued a snippy actor in a three piece suit and a super mutant who is searching for the
milk of human kindness, which he believes to be a real, physical substance.
i'm thankful for pressure cookers. i'm thankful that, on a whim, i was able to turn some
frozen chicken thighs into delicious chili verde with just a bit of lazy rough chopping and
time. i'm thankful for serrano peppers, for anaheim peppers, and for another kind of
peppers i can't remember the name of (i would normally be thankful for poblano peppers,
but the store was out of those last night when i stopped by on my way home from work).
i'm thankful that we allowed ourselves the indulgence of eating an entire pint of gelato in
one sitting, even though we really shouldn't have. i'm thankful that we didn't eat dessert
during the week, making it slightly more acceptable to do so. i'm thankful for talenti
peanut butter cup gelato, which is the greatest supermarket ice cream known to man. i'm
thankful for the possibility that there might just be something better out there that i
haven't tried yet. i'm thankful for possibility in all its forms.
11/15/15
i'm thankful that directly after saying "this is boring" in the toy department at target,
where i was killing time while d looked at makeup, I entered an aisle where a little boy
was gasping in awe in front of a wall of action figures. i'm thankful for the way he said
"whoa." i'm thankful for the special edition snickers "rockin' nut road" bar we got "free" at
the grocery store with our coupon card. i'm thankful for industrial marshmallow. i'm
thankful for the spoils of capitalism.
i'm thankful for hot tea.
i'm thankful for this podcast about high fidelity. i'm thankful for a chance to reevaluate
something i uncritically loved when i was young, but to do so joyfully and with humor.
i'm thankful for "who loves the sun" and i'm thankful for lisa bonet. i'm thankful for john
cusack, who is the celebrity d's father said he was reminded of after first meeting me.
i'm thankful that running under the stardust bridge (dedicated to hoagy carmichael, who
is from here) while listening to the high fidelity podcast yesterday made me think about
the movie stardust memories, which I taped off cable my freshman year of college and
watched over and over until the tape wore out. i'm thankful for the chance to reminisce
about what was my favorite shot in a movie ever at that point, the moment at the end of
the movie where the woody allen character is eating yogurt and watching his lover on an
ordinary afternoon and musing about the wonderfulness of that and how meaningful it is
while the louis armstrong version of "stardust" plays. i'm thankful that i can now reflect
on that movie critically, with regard to the male gaze and, you know, woody allen in
general, but also that part of me can access the naive romance the scene made me feel
and still feel it while thinking of d and how much i love her.
i'm thankful for this video of spanish women synchronized swimming to "stairway to
heaven." i'm thankful that i consciously avoided "stairway to heaven" as a prejudiced
teenage rockist so that now it's not overplayed for me. i'm thankful for the power with
which they kick the water during the guitar solo, and the way the leader slapping the
surface in time with the snare roll makes me think of the who's performance of "a quick
one" in the kids are all right and how during the ecstatic "you are forgiven" section, keith
moon has water on his drum heads which explodes into the air as he crescendos.
i'm thankful to ride my bike with no hands along an empty stretch of trail.
11/16/15
i'm thankful that the two very bad dreams i had last night ended and that i woke up safe
in a warm bed next to the person i love. i'm thankful that in the first dream, in which my
mother was stabbed to death in an elevator while i stood in an anonymous corridor
elsewhere in the building, i did not have to see my mother be stabbed to death. i'm
thankful that in the second dream, in which my father was dying of a mysterious illness, i
was able to distance myself from my wracking dream sobs with a meta-meditation about
how the narrative structure of the latter part of the dream resembled a sequence in
fallout 4 that i had played that evening. i'm thankful that bad dreams end.
i'm thankful i have a doctor's appointment today. i'm thankful i'm not as anxious about
going to the doctor as i have been in the past. i'm thankful i have good insurance and can
afford to go to the doctor when i need to go to the doctor. i'm thankful that the weather is
warm enough that i can run or bike to the doctor and back.
i'm thankful that even though i lost my debit card while biking yesterday, a nice person
named "julie" found it and phoned the card company. i'm thankful for "kevin," the
customer service representative i spoke to who was very nice and helpful. i'm thankful my
identity was not stolen.
i'm thankful for the deep, comfortable bathtub in the house we're renting. i'm thankful
for plentiful hot water. i'm thankful that the piece of cardboard i tried to fashion (using
folding, gorilla glue, packing tape, and rubber bands) into a sort of "bath desk" was a
wobbly failure and that even if it hadn't been, it wouldn't have worked because of the
angles of my arms and bathtub ergonomics. i'm thankful that it didn't work because i was
able to type out the last entry easily just with my thumbs, my arms submerged in the hot
water, and was more comfortable than i would have been otherwise.
i'm thankful for the joy that d and her sister e shared while playing together in e's animal
crossing town. i'm thankful for the ability to watch their colorful avatars fish and hunt for
bugs and shop. i'm thankful for this insane chart, which shows how dialogue responses
shape your character's appearance.
i'm thankful for my longest meditation session yet. i'm thankful for seated forward bends
and i'm thankful for cactus pose. i'm thankful for the concept of loving-kindness
meditation. i'm thankful that i have felt so much more positive and good since i started to
write these thank you notes. i'm thankful whether that's correlation or whether it's
causation.
i'm thankful that in one week, i'll be on vacation for a whole week, which is the longest
vacation i've had since last christmas.
i'm thankful for this description of water coming out of a garden hose, from greg hrbek's
not on fire, but burning: "as moses nkondo opens the nozzle of the garden hose (the
water has been surging there like blood behind a clot and now released atomizes against
the blacktop, alchemizing into a rainbow-flecked spray), he watches the two boys walk
towards the neighboring house."
11/17/15
i'm thankful that my doctor appointment went well. i'm thankful that even though my
blood pressure was high, my doctor was not concerned and did not see a need for further
intervention at this time. i am thankful that she prescribed a sleep aid, as i had requested.
i'm thankful that though the sleep aid did not really aid sleep and, additionally, had the
unexpected and extremely uncomfortable side effect of a multi-hour erection which
would not go away even as i thought of the unsexiest thoughts, my equipment is fine, if a
bit sore, this morning, unlike the equipment of my fellow human being whose case is
described in the medical journal paper which is the first google result for "trazodone
erection," which i googled at 3am when the erection would still not go away. i'm thankful i
did not read further than the title and the first paragraph. i'm thankful that i no longer
have an erection now but i'm thankful for all the erections that i will have in the future.
i'm thankful for the nice old woman named edna at the doctor's office, who looked lost
and uncomfortable and who was so reassured when i told that her son was in the
bathroom and would probably be out soon. i'm thankful that i'm a more social person
than i was in the past, when i probably would have looked down at my phone and not say
anything. i'm thankful for her perm and her round glasses and kind smile and peachcolored sweatsuit.
i'm thankful that an employer i am excited about wants to move forward with the
interview process. i'm thankful for the possibility of a new kind of work and a new kind of
work life and maybe even, because the position is remote, a new kind of life, depending
on what d and i want to do. i'm thankful i am not getting my hopes up too much, but i'm
also thankful that i'm excited.
i'm thankful for kombucha and matcha and yoga, which kept me awake today, pushing
back against the torpor caused by the sleep aid / having a multi-hour erection.
i'm thankful that my bank quickly and easily replaced my lost credit card.
i'm thankful for analyze phish. i'm thankful that even though harris wittels is dead, i can
still listen to him over and over on podcasts and that they still make me smile and laugh.
i'm thankful for podcasts in general, which fill what otherwise might be periods of
drudgery with joy. i'm thankful for chelsea peretti, who is the funniest person on earth.
i'm thankful for that one time she retweeted d's cartoon of her, which means that she has
a minute thread of a connection to us which only enhances the feeling of intimacy
engendered by listening to her voice for hundreds of hours.
i'm thankful for the rain suit that d got me, which i wore for the first time today. i'm
thankful for the military-industrial bulk of it, which made me feel like i was wearing the
power armor from fallout 4. i'm thankful that it mostly kept me dry, and i'm thankful that
rain got on my face, because now i know i still should carry a small umbrella with it.
i'm thankful that president obama reads game of thrones recaps.
11/18/15
i'm thankful to d for giving me a ride to work as the deluge continued for a second day.
i'm thankful for her car, sid. i'm thankful for being warm and dry.
i'm thankful for the return of keeping up with the kardashians. i'm thankful for kim, with
her sphinx grin and immaculate makeup and the way she cheerleads khloe in this episode
and her family always. i'm thankful for her enthusiastic remark about how "doing more
photo shoots" is a way to change history and your sense of your self and i'm thankful for
the ridiculous nonversation she and kris have about buying a real doll to pretend to be the
security guard at the gate of her house. i'm thankful for kris, and her embrace of her
relationship with cory, who seems like a nice person despite his patriarchal remark at the
malibu winery. i'm thankful for khloe, for her vulnerability and sense of humor, and for
the remark she makes to kourtney about how kourtney took her to a malibu winery to
make her feel better and that's why kourtney should come with her to another malibu
winery now. i'm thankful for the snack-size bags of chips on the white tablecloth at the
winery. i'm thankful to caitlin, for her bravery and for the phone conversation she has
with kim after kim speaks on a panel discussion. i'm thankful for kendall, even though
she's my least favorite jenner-kardashian. i'm thankful for kylie, who has a wonderful wry
smile and impish temperament and weirdly adorable dog.
i'm thankful for north, for how adorable she is, and for the story kim tells about her
confusion, as she looked up at the sky one night, that there was a star named after her but
not after other children.
i'm thankful for kourtney, my favorite kardashian, most of all. i'm thankful that this
season is focused on her divorce, even though i'm sad for her divorce and the sadness it's
caused her, because it means the season will be more focused on her. i'm thankful that of
all the kardashians, she is the most comfortable with the dailiness and quotidiana which
is the essence of the show. i'm thankful that she's quiet and grumpy and occasionally
difficult. i'm thankful for her relationship with her children, especially mason. i'm
thankful for her beautiful and expressive face, which i think is the best reality tv face
since lauren conrad. i'm thankful, for this reason, to watch her cry, even though i'm sad
that she's crying. i'm thankful for her emo tweets.
i'm thankful for mariah smith and her keeping up with the kontinuity errors posts. i'm
thankful for their value and their careful research, which i hope does not disappear with
the "new gawker." i'm thankful for defamer, which once posted a mash-up i did of siskel
and ebert's review of kids and the trailer for a season of the hills. i'm thankful for kelly
conaboy and i'm thankful for taylor berman and all the laughter they have brought to my
life so far and all that they will bring in the future.
i'm thankful that my doctor promptly called in a new prescription for me. i'm thankful
that when i picked it up last night, i met another of the new pharmacists, who was
wearing a short sleeve shirt with prints of sailboats on it. i'm thankful that the pill did not
have any side effects (as far as i can tell), and i'm thankful for the best sleep i've had in
weeks. i'm thankful that it was a little difficult to get out of bed this morning, actually,
since usually i've been waiting wide-awake for the alarm to go off and for permission to
exit a state of nocturnal discomfort. i'm thankful for modern medicine.
i'm thankful for rain, which can be unpleasant but which is a necessary part of life.
11/19/15
i'm thankful that it stopped raining. i'm thankful that though i messed up my rear brake
while avoiding a puddle yesterday, i did not crash (and also did not hit the puddle). i'm
thankful that when i got to work this morning, i looked at the brake assembly and realized
i just needed to pull the wire back into a small clip on the underside of the crossbar and
my brakes would be fixed. i'm glad doing that in the world was as easy as seeing it in my
mind.
i'm thankful to be moving forward in the interview process for the job i want. i'm thankful
i've already written a pitch and i'm thankful for an inquisitive mind which will hopefully
help me write two more before the end of the day tomorrow. i'm thankful that the
company i'm interviewing with seems so awesome.
i'm thankful for another great night of sleep. i'm thankful that i feel even less drowsy this
morning than i did yesterday, despite having more of the medication in my system. i'm
thankful for the feeling of being rested. i'm thankful for warm morning snuggles with d
and talking about our dreams. i'm thankful for the dream in which i gave a pencil to a
student who needed one.
i'm thankful for the ridiculous doctoral student in folklore who i saw babywearing a tiny
chihuahua while walking in the rain. i'm thankful for all the hilarious moments he
brought to the class i took with him years ago, including making guacamole on the
seminar table and kissing the ass of our teacher by way of a powerpoint slide listing in
great detail her accomplishments and his connection to her which made her incredibly
embarrassed, which i enjoyed. i'm thankful that seeing him wearing a chihuahua strapped
to his chest while walking in the rain gave me the chance to reminisce about these things.
i'm thankful i finished an email to my friend jk that i had been working on for weeks. i'm
thankful that the final email was more than 5000 words long, because i know she likes
long emails. i'm thankful for the last email she sent me, which was a pleasure to read
during an intense time in california.
i'm thankful for the moment years ago, after a very bad panic attack, when i went to the
park and read the entirety of high windows by phillip larkin and felt somewhat better. i'm
thankful for the poetry foundation podcast titled "be kind while there's time" that got me
into larkin in the first place. i'm thankful that googling "larkin" in my gmail turned up this
old diary from the beginning of this year, right when i started taking some prozac that had
been sitting in my sock drawer for a year and a half “in case i needed it”:
"yesterday i just felt so bad, the intensity of it radiating through every cell of my body, the
badness from my nerves generating acid that eroded all of the progress my stomach lining
had made recently, and i couldn't feel this bad anymore and i remembered that this was
an option and i figured that i have been in the same bad pattern, of good weeks and bad
weeks, for way too long and it's time to try another door.
so i took the pill this morning and i've felt so much better today. strange, but better. the
last time i tried this was a year and a half ago, the day after the really bad panic attack that
had d taking me to urgent care for the second time in two days. i think i just took it once
(or maybe twice), on a day that i mostly remember spending in a kind of detached peace
in bryan park on a sunny day, where i read the entirety of 'high windows' by phillip larkin.
i also remember d and i trying to have sex, because i felt better and because i wanted to
show her how much i appreciated her and loved her, and i couldn't feel my penis. that
was enough to stop me from taking it and to tell my doctor that i felt like i was handling
things with meditation and exercise and good sleep hygiene. and the fear of that absence
of feeling is the primary thing that's kept me from considering this in the past and instead
indulging in a panoply of expensive and i think mostly useless over the counter herbal
whatevers.
i hope the numbness goes away but, as i said, i can't keep going forward on the path i was
on. it would destroy me much sooner than would be natural otherwise. (that sounds so
melodramatic, but it is true). so let's try this! i feel like i started feeling something after a
few hours - i had to make a catering order for the retreat tomorrow, which stressed me
out but the stress felt like the volume was turned down just a few db and then faded
much faster than it normally would. then i guess the next thing i noticed was a sense of
strangeness as i gchatted with d. my thoughts felt much more clearly
segmented/fragmented than the long rambly chains i normally employ. i also felt a
certain self-consciousness that made me think of tao lin - a dissociation or a sense of
strangeness at trying to use words to express myself. i inadvertently was rude to d but
she forgave me, so that was all okay and as we talked more i felt more articulate and
normal. on my lunch walk, i talked to my parents and i think felt and came across as
normal, though i was maybe slightly less engaged than i normally would have been.
then this afternoon, it's been perhaps more muted but again, i just generally feel a lot
lighter, like my nervous system's tuning strings have been loosened. it is great. i also
seem to be able to let things go faster and to not obsessively check over emails (which
lead to me making a typo, but i didn't really care! that's great!!! i used to feel so destroyed
by a typo, even when the person i was writing to could barely communicate with me).
maybe a slight tension in my temples and occasional shakiness, but not really any other
negative side effect feelings. i will check in again tomorrow but i feel much better than
yesterday and that is a cause for celebration."
i'm thankful for the way that diaries let us track how we change over time and how we
stay the same. i'm thankful for how great i feel all the time now. i'm thankful i can keep
the kind of diary that's in this email instead of the kind of diary that's in that one.
11/20/15
i'm thankful for my wife d today and yesterday and every day forever. i'm more thankful
for her than anyone or anything else in the world. i'm thankful for how drunk i was when
i first met her, at a student orientation, and how cool i thought she was and how i luckily
didn't embarrass myself too much. i'm thankful for the tokidoki tennis shoes she wore
that caught my eye with their tiny cartoon tigers and gave me something to banter about
with her. i'm thankful for sitting next to her in our writing workshop, even if it really
annoyed our friend c one time. i'm thankful for her asking for my phone number after
reading a love story i wrote and i'm thankful for our early tentative texts about celebrity
crushes (which were really proxies for discussion of actual crushes). i'm thankful for our
early dates, for the time we ate sandwiches for lunch on high stools in a crappy
underground restaurant, i'm thankful for the time we went to macy's to buy her dad a tie
for his birthday, and i'm thankful for the time she invited me over to her house one night
for beers and i was allergic to her roommate's many cats and she was impressed by how
many followers my defunct tumblr blog had. i'm thankful she tolerated my dismissal of
literary magazines and my incredible ego.
i'm thankful for the day five years ago, after a party where we spent what felt like hours
away from everyone else sitting side by side on a sofa, the outsides of our thighs pressing
against each other, when she texted me and said that we needed to talk. i'm thankful that
she was brave enough, over yellow curry at a tibetan restaurant, to say that she wanted us
to be exclusive and i'm thankful that i agreed. i'm thankful for the awkward hug and first
kiss we shared beside her car outside my old apartment before she went to california for
thanksgiving break.
i will never be thankful enough for her, but i'm thankful for the opportunity to keep
trying.
11/21/15
i'm thankful that i was born on this day thirty years ago. i'm thankful i'm not dead. i'm
thankful that tomorrow exists and i can write more then.
11/22/15
i'm thankful for my birthday letter from d, which is the best letter i've ever received. i'm
thankful for the last of my wonderful presents from her. i'm thankful that she took me
out to lunch and, though it was raining on the way to the restaurant, it started snowing
while we were sitting in the booth waiting for our food. i'm thankful that the first snow of
the year was on my birthday, which felt magical. i'm thankful that though the restaurant
streamlined their menu and did not have the sandwiches we originally wanted to order,
the sandwiches we did order were delicious: a chicken sandwich with brie and a club with
a mysterious sweetness.
i'm thankful that as we walked home through the cold, the big wet flakes of snow began
to stick to the ground. i'm thankful for the oddity, because it is the first snow of the year
and because it has been wet and warm lately, of the white snow coating bright green
grass, which is a rare juxtaposition. i'm thankful for the way the large tree in our backyard
sheltered a portion of the yard from the snow, creating an interesting pattern. i'm
thankful that while noticing this, i made eye contact with our next door neighbor, who
was on his back patio smoking a cigarette, and i'm thankful for the smile we shared. i'm
thankful he and his fiancee are good neighbors who are quiet and easy to get along with.
i'm thankful for d and i bundling up under the throw on the couch and drinking pineapple
flavored tea to warm up from the snowy cold..
i'm thankful for the incredibly generous birthday gift that my parents gave me. i'm
thankful for my grandfather and grandmother (who are both now dead), for making it
possible for them to give me the gift. i'm thankful for the possibilities the gift represents.
i'm thankful for the other day when i pointed out to a visiting lecturer that we were
wearing matching plaid shirts and i put my forearm up against his and there was a tiny
moment of connection with him. i'm thankful for another visiting lecturer, with whom i
play a childish game in which we shoot each other with invisible guns from different
vantage points in the office. i'm thankful for the other visiting lecturer, who often asks for
my help editing her sentences and who treats me like an expert. i'm thankful for the
fourth visiting lecturer, who i don't speak to much but who is always nice and who one
day recently brought in bagels and coffee for the office for no reason in particular.
i'm thankful to listen to d, in a flow state trance, murmuring css parameters to herself on
the other side of the couch.
i'm thankful for the trouble i had running on the treadmill yesterday, even if it made me
feel bad, because of how much more respect it gives me for d's daily treadmill workouts.
i'm thankful that even though it's cold today, i'll be able to bundle up and go out and get a
good workout.
i'm thankful for my electric bass. i'm thankful that i've been able to come to this
instrument at this point in my life and i'm thankful for the joy that playing it gives me.
i'm thankful for the smooth roundness of the flatwound strings.
i'm thankful that i finished reading greg hrbek's not on fire, but burning and i'm thankful
it was such an amazing novel. i'm thankful for the radioactive beauty of his prose. i'm
thankful, especially given what's going on in the world right now, for the thoughtful and
complex way his book deals with islamophobia and with the oblique, mystical way he
processes tragedy. i'm thankful that i was able to read the book and i'm also thankful that
it's over, because it was intense. i'm thankful that i have lots of great books to choose
from to read next and a lot of time to read them.
i'm thankful that my stomach seems to be doing better. i'm thankful that even though
there are some side effects to my new medication so far which i am not crazy about, i'm
sleeping very well. i'm thankful that my vacation is only just beginning and that there is
so much time and so much fun to be had.
i'm thankful for the story of d's boss's daughter, who received a piñata for her birthday
but decided that it was too beautiful to destroy.
11/23/15
i'm thankful i'm on vacation. i'm thankful that i fell asleep early last night, not out of
exhaustion, but out of warmth and comfort and relaxation. i'm thankful that when i woke
up at 11:30 and realized what had happened, i wasn't mad that i missed out on time doing
things, because i've still got plenty of time. i'm thankful for the new book i started reading
last night, no harm can come to a good man by james smythe. i'm thankful that even
though the book isn't fantastic yet, it's very readable and has mystery and promise that
impel me forward. i'm thankful for the machine, which is my favorite novel by this author
so far.
i'm thankful that even though this ma po tofu turned out way too salty and had too much
sichuan pepper, it was still (barely) edible. i'm thankful that we are privileged enough to
be able to throw out the leftovers rather than force ourselves to eat them again and i'm
thankful that we have the ingredients to try a new batch with a tweaked recipe. i'm
thankful d found the sichuan peppercorns at the international market. i'm thankful for
the totally bizarre sensation i experienced while eating one whole. i'm thankful for our
trip to the grocery store yesterday, where we bought lots of delicious food to eat. i'm
thankful to eat charcuterie and fruit and baguette tonight.
i'm thankful for [redacted].
i'm thankful for the wrinkly skin on the underside of my yoga mat, which, as i roll it, still
blissed out from meditation, reminds me of human skin. i'm thankful for getting back
into meditation, which i had lost touch with for a moment. i'm thankful for the time to
meditate more later.
i'm thankful for the tiramisu d made for my birthday. i'm thankful that ladyfingers were
on sale and that the recipe makes a huge tray, which allows for lots of healthy portions.
i'm thankful that we are taking a vacation break from our dessert fast, and i'm thankful
that she's going to make a pumpkin pie after we finish the tiramisu. i'm thankful that,
aside from pumpkin pie, we don't have to eat any of the traditional thanksgiving food that
i hate, and i'm thankful that the food we do have will not require much effort, leaving lots
of time for relaxing.
i'm thankful for the run i had yesterday. i'm thankful that though it was the coldest day of
the year so far, i felt fine in my gloves and tights and down coat. i'm thankful for the rush
of endorphins to my brain and for the feeling of power and freedom i experience as i cover
great tracts of land. i'm thankful that i didn't experience any of the unpleasant side effects
i've experienced after long runs in the past.
i'm thankful i tried mixing gin with my kombucha, which turned out to taste much better
than i had expected.
i'm thankful for the amazon adaptation of the man in the high castle, which has been
much more entertaining than the book version was on the occasions in the past when i
tried and failed to read it. i'm thankful that even if it isn't the greatest tv show ever, it's
solidly entertaining and has an intriguing plot and world. i'm thankful for wayward pines,
which seems kind of analogous in terms of style and shape and cheap junk food bliss
point, and i'm thankful that the acting and writing on this are much better than that
show.
i'm thankful that after steeping this tea for the third time, i can still taste an outline of the
flavor.
11/24/15
i'm thankful for the sound of our furnace. i'm thankful that unlike the heater in our last
apartment, which sounded like twenty-one bb guns rapid firing into a pile of aluminum
cans, this furnace has a quiet but satisfying subterranean rumble.
i'm thankful that even though i didn't get to move forward in the interview process for the
job i wanted, i received a nice email from the editorial director of the company thanking
me for my time. i'm thankful that rather than making me wait, he sent the email the next
business day after i submitted my pitches. i'm thankful for the process of interviewing
with him and talking to the hr person and writing the pitches, because these are all
valuable experiences that make me more confident in my abilities as a writer and person
and should help me as i continue my job search. i'm thankful, even, for the pall of
melancholy that fell over me yesterday evening after i received the news. i'm thankful
that it didn't consume me and i'm thankful that i'm processing my emotions rather than
trying to hide from them or hold them inside locked rooms in my brain.
i'm thankful that my coworker texted me on my vacation because she was freaked out
about not receiving a print job that i ordered last week. i'm sorry that she was freaked out,
but sometimes i'm thankful for her freak outs, even if they annoy me at times, because
they put into perspective my own feelings of work ennui and help me, as i gently tell her
to chill out, chill out myself and remember that we are not doing brain surgery here. i'm
thankful that even though i didn't get to move forward in the interview process for the job
i wanted, i still have a good job with good benefits where i work with really nice people.
i'm thankful that when i get frustrated with my job search, i can comfort myself by
remembering that, and also by remembering how stressed out i was a few years ago when
i was applying for jobs without a job at all, much less a good job with good benefits where
i work with really nice people.
i'm thankful that i'm on vacation. i'm thankful for cheap supermarket malbec, which is
the ideal accompaniment for our chosen charcuterie platter. i'm thankful for the reruns of
the office that we watched with dinner.
i'm thankful that i felt free to give up on the book i mentioned yesterday, which despite
the future promise of something dark and interesting, was too flat to sustain my
attention, especially since i was feeling melancholy. i'm thankful to dip back into
natasha's dance by orlando figes and i'm thankful for his smooth prose and interesting
anecdotes and i'm thankful that i'm at the part where the decembrists are planning their
rebellion.
i'm thankful for the longest meditation session i've had so far (22 minutes). even though i
was hoping to meditate for 30 minutes, i'm thankful for the random call that came in on
the 22nd minute, because it has taught me that i need to put my phone in "do not disturb"
mode when i meditate. i'm thankful that i have more time to meditate today.
i'm thankful for the great sleep i'm getting regularly now and for how i'm taking less
medicine for my stomach (some days no medicine at all!) than I have in a long time. i'm
thankful that my medication helps me sleep but doesn't knock me out so much that i
can't wake d from bad dreams in the middle of the night if she needs me.
i'm thankful for synthesizer presets. i'm thankful for reverb.
i'm thankful for the band next door, even if they were louder than usual last night and
verging on "too loud." i'm thankful for the tightness of their martial grooves and the
distinctiveness of their bass lines. i'm thankful for the weird new song they were playing
last night, which at first sounded like "blitzkrieg bop" but then ramped up into something
darker and stranger, with tortured atonal guitar wrenching along beside the rhythm. i'm
thankful that they always stop rehearsing before 10:00pm.
i'm thankful for the tiny flat-head screwdriver i used to tighten up my glasses so that i will
be able to see out of them better.
11/25/15
i'm thankful for the new frost on the grass. i'm thankful for the temperature causing my
breath to condense into a cloud of vapor as i exhale.
i'm thankful for the gas station attendant, who told us that if an attendant is present,
compressed air is free at kroger. i'm thankful that we were able to pump up sid's tires
without having to scramble for change like we usually do. i'm thankful that a passing
motorist stopped to tell us that we could get free air at a nearby gas station and i'm
thankful that we were able to tell him that the air was free here too.
i'm thankful that when we stopped at the dentist to get a new tube of prescription
toothpaste, we did not have dentist's appointments we had to go to. i'm glad the sounds of
drilling and sucking and spraying that wafted out of the back were not meant for me.
i'm thankful for [redacted].
i'm thankful that perhaps my favorite blogger, the tipsy baker, is back with a new post
about her daughter being home from college for thanksgiving. i'm thankful that she is
having such a happy holiday, even if the writing that made me love her is about
unhappiness and shattering the illusions of domestic bliss so common to the food blog
scene. i'm thankful for the concept of waffle cupcakes.
i'm thankful that even though my bike tires were too flat and my iphone battery died and
the trail was muddy, i went on and enjoyed a bike ride yesterday. i'm thankful for the
moment, after my iphone died and so i couldn't listen to a podcast and was forced to be
alone with my thoughts, when my sad feelings about not getting the job were dredged up
off the ocean floor of my brain. i'm thankful for the moment after that, when, trying to be
present in the moment instead of focusing on those feelings, i looked up at the arch of
leafless trees above me and the sun broke through the clouds, warming me up. i'm
thankful for the moment after that, when i looked into my rear-view mirror and its image
was a tiny icon painting of the wonder of the sunny trail.
i'm thankful that i tried again to make the ma po tofu and was much more successful this
time. i'm thankful that the new recipe helped me avoid the salty jarred sauces in favor of
deeper flavors. i'm thankful that though it wasn't as good as what we had in the
restaurant in california, it carried its echo, and i'm thankful that it wasn't too salty or too
numbing. i'm thankful that we have leftovers to eat tonight.
11/26/15
i'm thankful that i am finding time this week to unsubscribe from all of the junk email i
receive. i'm thankful that i have the time now to save time in the future, and to save the
mental energy that seeing a new email and assessing it for its importance sucks from my
heart. i'm thankful for the ridiculousness of the unsubscribing process, for the tiny fonts
of the buttons and for the flagrant abuse of checkboxes.
i'm thankful that i meditated for an hour straight yesterday, which is my longest
meditation ever. i'm thankful for the way it actually got easier the longer i went. i'm
thankful i didn't try to do it in full lotus, which made my legs go numb the last time. i'm
thankful for the dark, quiet room i was in that helped me focus.
i'm thankful for the narrator by michael cisco. i'm thankful for the kafkaesque in his
work, the complex world of arbitrary rules which are not understood by the narrator until
it's too late, and also for the mieville-ishness, the creation of strange creatures and the
precision of their description.
i'm thankful for the opportunity to have a hot bath not because i'm dirty or sweaty, but
just for the pleasure of the warmth on my skin and the chance to read uninterrupted. i'm
thankful that the bathroom has a glazed window that lets in warm sunlight in the early
afternoon.
i'm thankful for the economy-size bag of store brand honey nut cheerios i bought. i'm
always thankful to have a bowl of cereal for breakfast. i'm thankful for my memories of
my dad eating what he called a "jethro bowl" of cereal (a large metal mixing bowl) when i
was a kid. i'm thankful to read recently, i can't remember where, about christina tosi
doing the same thing.
i'm thankful for the useless lattices of cheap duct tape i've applied to try to attach a sheet
of cardboard i covered with soundproofing to a microphone stand. i'm thankful for how
hopeful i feel each time i erect it anew, for the cross-braces and support lines of tape i
apply, for the way i try to solve the problem again, and i'm thankful to be reminded, when
i hear the cardboard fall in the other room, of how i can't control everything. i'm thankful
for the idea i had last night, to cut a slit in the cardboard which should seat it into the
joint of the microphone stand more neatly and securely. i'm thankful that the likely
failure of this scheme will not upset me too much.
i'm thankful that even though i burned the grilled cheese i made with the last two pieces
of cheese in the fridge, i was able to scrape off the charred bits with a sharp knife and it
was still delicious. i'm thankful for the sweetness of anjou pear in our salad, and for
grated carrot. i'm thankful for strawberry cheesecake ice cream.
i'm thankful for the issue of the new yorker i read in the bath, which has emily witt
writing about the founders of erowid and adrian chen writing about megan phelps and a
really interesting longread about the philosophy of artificial intelligence.
i'm thankful that in a reading i was listening to while doing yoga, john ashberry
mispronounced “libido."
11/27/15
i'm thankful for drinking slightly too much in the early afternoon. i'm thankful that when
you drink slightly too much in the early afternoon, there is mid-afternoon and late
afternoon and evening in which to recover from your excess. i'm thankful for the
occasional excess.
i'm thankful for d reminding me, after we watched a television character attempt to tie a
cherry stem in a knot with his tongue, that i had successfully done this once at a bar. i'm
thankful for the small and silly sense of accomplishment i felt when remembering this.
i'm thankful that even though my run was difficult and my legs were sore and the
temperature was uncomfortable (both too hot and too cold, despite what i thought were
adaptable layers), i still went running and got a good workout. i'm thankful for the new
route north of town that our new neighborhood has given me, though i'm also thankful
for my slight fatigue with its steep hills and the way that indicates that maybe i should
switch up my route a bit more. i'm thankful that though it is supposed to rain most of the
day today, i should be able to get out and get today's run in before it starts.
i'm thankful that we don't have to do any black friday shopping. i'm thankful for five years
ago, when i bought my black down coat and warm, thick socks that have become essential
parts of my winter armor. i'm thankful, on that same shopping trip, that i bought a pillow
and a toothbrush for d, in the hope that she would choose to stay over at my apartment
when she came back from thanksgiving break. i'm thankful for the warm sunshine as i
carried these unwieldy purchases back across town to my apartment. i'm thankful for my
memory of sitting alone in my apartment and playing endless amounts of fallout 3.
i'm thankful for a great night's sleep. i'm thankful for the moment when d and i were
apparently each talking to the other in our sleep and then woke up, each confused about
why the other person was talking, since we were talking to each other in our sleep and not
in real life. i'm thankful for the weird dream i had later in the night, which involved
scanning phrases to find iambs.
i'm thankful that i meditated for an hour straight again yesterday. i'm thankful that it was
more difficult that time, because that made it feel like more of an accomplishment to
complete it. i'm thankful that the head and neck-aches i had went away. i'm thankful for
the pain that built up in my right butt cheek over the course of the hour, for teaching me
that i might not have been in the right position and that maybe additional cushioning
would be helpful.
i'm thankful for the movie inside out, which we finally got around to watching last night.
i'm thankful that i did not allow my critiques of inconsistencies in the movie's
metaphorical modeling of the emotional landscape or of the obvious plot or of the gender
normativity of the parents' emotions or of pixar trying to assuage bay-area start-up parent
guilt to get too much in the way of our enjoyment of the film, which was well-intentioned
and ultimately enjoyable. i'm thankful for the visual play during the sequence dealing
with abstraction and for the imaginary friend voiced by richard kind. i'm thankful for the
sequence in the memory dump with the rocket wagon powered by song. i'm thankful for
the movie's reminder that as time dims the emotional impact of our past experiences into
memory, we can forget how sadness is interlocked with happiness and vice versa. i'm
thankful for julian casablancas, who i decided would be my personal version of the
"disgust" emotion voiced by mindy kaling.
i'm thankful for the theory i heard, on an episode of this podcast, that ghosts were made
extinct by electricity because its light destroyed their natural habitat.
11/28/15
i'm thankful for the line "my mama don't like you and she likes everyone" from the justin
bieber song "love yourself," which made me laugh out loud as i scanned through the
spotify "viral 50" chart in the car. i'm thankful that the number one song on the chart was
inexplicably (since the chart is usually 75% edm and 25% meme-hop) a lovely lo-fi jangle
of a song called "looking out for you." i'm thankful for spotify's discover algorithms,
which do actually sometimes tend to point me toward music i want to hear.
i'm thankful for this kathryn schulz piece on weather in fiction in a recent new yorker
that i read in a hot bath while it rained outside. i'm thankful to read that the early
christians thought adam's mind was made from a pound of clouds. i'm thankful for
reading that nabokov described his marriage to véra as "cloudless" and thankful for the
new york times list of notable books for the year, a part of which paired with that
description to make me want to read his book of letters to her. i'm thankful for the
fragmentation and darkness of the michael cisco book i'm reading, but i'm also thankful
to have cloudless books i can step into whenever i want.
i'm thankful for kourtney kardashian and her continued commitment to the quotidian.
i'm thankful for the focus on food in the most recent kuwtk, the foregrounding of
smoothies and cookies and grocery store trips when often food is an ambient big salad,
bites of which are used to punctuate dialogue (though i'm thankful for those big salads
too). i'm thankful for the hilarious face kim made while pretending to enjoy kourtney's
warm avocado health pudding and for the shakespearean aside of a smile that she gave
the camera when scott entered the kitchen from stage left. i'm thankful for the way that
kourtney's problems with scott are in her mind not fundamentally about an addiction to
drugs or alcohol but an addiction to events (he feels "trapped" in their home after
spending too much time there and needs to escape to the clubs where he hosts, a death
drive kourtney can only understand vaguely because of her personal mental makeup). i'm
thankful that malika's presence was limited in this episode and has been limited in this
season so far, since she is a character who exists solely for the sake of creating and
advancing plot and tension and is for that reason the enemy of the essence of the show.
i'm thankful for a really excellent night's sleep and i'm thankful i haven't taken any
stomach medicine in several days.
i'm thankful that we're done watching the man in high castle, which started off decently
and ended atrociously. i'm thankful for wikipedia, where i could read about the book and
about the differences between the book and the show. i'm thankful that we're done
watching the man in the high castle and can now watch another (hopefully better) show.
i'm thankful for meditation. i'm thankful i did 30 minutes yesterday and 20 minutes this
morning. i'm thankful that even if every session isn't perfect, it's worthwhile. i'm thankful
that it's worthwhile in the micro sense that even in a weak, distracted session, there are
moments of mental peace and recognitions of unique sensation and the deep calm in my
nerves when the chimes ring and i return to the day. i'm thankful also in the macro sense
that every session i complete is a link in the chain of practice and that i feel confident that
the value of this will add up over time.
i'm thankful to be inside while it rains heavily on the roof of the house. i'm thankful for
this vacation, which has been restorative, and i'm thankful that even though i started to
get waves of that mopey "end of vacation" feeling yesterday, which felt weirdly like a
sunday, we still have a whole weekend in which to luxuriate. i'm thankful that i have a job
but i'm also thankful to have a break from the job, and thankful that it will not be too long
until i have another.
11/29/15
i'm thankful that i'm not a smoker in the midwest in the winter. i'm thankful that i'm not
a smoker in general, but after watching my neighbor step out onto his back patio to have a
smoke today, i'm thankful that i'm not a smoker in the midwest in the winter.
i'm thankful that it's cold enough that my breath forms vapor. i'm thankful for heattech
long underwear. i'm thankful for down.
i'm thankful that i'm finally making kefir, after spending a lot of time and effort to find
the grains and then sticking them in the back of the cupboard for weeks. i'm thankful that
i realize how ridiculous it was to put it off because of some subterranean anxiety about
boiling milk and i'm thankful how easy it is to leave it resting on the counter. i'm thankful
that i'm getting into a good workflow with my continuous brew kombucha. i'm thankful
for the short wait times of these forms of home fermentation, which split the difference
perfectly between patience and gratification. i'm thankful that i can recognize the
ridiculousness of the sentences in this paragraph and i'm thankful that i can laugh at
them while also living them.
i'm thankful for natasha's dance, which i went back to last night after the narrator got a
little too fragmented and purple.
i'm thankful for [redacted].
i'm thankful that though my stomach was a little tight yesterday, it loosened up and i
slept well. i'm thankful to try a new recipe for dinner tonight and i'm thankful that green
beans and pears were on sale at the grocery store and that we got a perfectly good bag of
spinach for fifty cents. i'm thankful that the kroger weekly giveaway was a pack of airhead
bites, a new candy form i had seen at CVS and drooled after recently. i'm thankful that d
didn't really like the bites and so i got to eat most of them. i'm thankful that i enjoyed
them, even if i don't think they're as good as regular airheads. i'm thankful for my
memories of eating airheads as a child, which mostly take place in the summer at
swimming pools. i'm thankful for the white mystery flavor.
i'm thankful for the nice quiet man who has been hired by our landlord to do work on the
exterior of our house. i'm thankful to hear his footsteps on the roof while i meditate. i'm
thankful we are living in this house, which is not perfect but which is the perfect place for
us to be right now. i'm thankful that we haven't encountered any more mice lately.
i'm thankful for warm blankets and i'm thankful for central heating.
11/30/15
i'm thankful that there's only one hour left till 5:00. i'm thankful that even though the
track was unexpectedly closed for construction during my lunch, i still had a good
treadmill run. i'm thankful for the ridiculously tall ladder they were using for the
construction on the track. i'm thankful that the various (metaphorical) fires that had be
put out at work today got put out. i'm thankful that there were no literal fires at work
today.
i'm thankful that i submitted another job application yesterday afternoon. i'm thankful to
get back in the saddle after not getting that last job. i'm thankful that there was an
opening for such a cool job here and i'm thankful that preparing the application materials
wasn't nearly as arduous as i thought it would be. i'm thankful for the hope i feel about
the job and i'm thankful for the security i feel about what will happen if i don't get it. i'm
thankful that i found some other cool jobs here to apply for.
i'm thankful that our small town has added to its catalog of ridiculousness a physical
store devoted to an internet cat. i'm thankful that the cat, which i think is unpleasant to
look at, somehow makes so many people so happy. i'm thankful that though i don't get
much pleasure from pictures and videos of animals doing things, they bring moments of
joy to many people every day.
i'm thankful for how pleased a professor was when i complimented her new striped
sweater, which featured really vibrant fall colors. i'm thankful for how happy people at
work were to see me after my vacation and i'm thankful for how happy i was to see them.
i'm thankful for the sigh of relief a professor gave when i discreetly pulled her out of a
meeting to talk about a meeting room scheduling issue and, seeing that she was nervous,
said "don't worry, nobody's dead!"
i'm thankful for the srsly podcast, which i heard about on an episode of call your
girlfriend d was listening to while brushing her teeth and which had an excellent first
episode about harry potter. i'm thankful that chelsea peretti and jordan peele got engaged.
i'm thankful for this macaroni and cheese, which we made last night and which is like
what your memory is of what velveeta shells and cheese tastes like (versus what it
actually tastes like, now, as an adult). i'm thankful for macaroni and i'm thankful for
cheese.
12/1/15
i'm thankful that even though it was a gray day yesterday and most of the trees in town
have lost their leaves, when i was riding home, i turned a corner on my bike and
encountered a majestic set of trees with pumpkin colored leaves in full foliage on the
sides of the bridge over the road near our house.
i'm thankful for d's aphoristic suggestion that a good unripe pear is an "ideal apple" in the
discussion we were having in bed while she flipped through the harry and david catalog
we got in the mail. i'm thankful that we can buy delicious pears for 99 cents a pound on
sale at the supermarket rather than ordering them for 60 dollars from the harry and david
catalog, though i am also thankful for the fancy foil that harry and david (imagine if they
were just two people, sitting in a house full of fruit) wrap the pears in, which i bet
contributes as much to their food’s flavor aura as terroir. i'm thankful for the actual ideal
apple (for me at least), which is a fuji small enough to be palmed, but i'm also thankful
for the crisp complexity of unripe pears.
i'm thankful for the nice conversation i had with my manager while she showed me cell
phone pictures of her seven different christmas trees and i'm thankful for the funny
sacrilegious office e-mail chain i participated in with a colleague yesterday and i'm
thankful for the silly text message chats about christmas lists that d had with her family
in the evening. i'm thankful for d's father's wishlist, which featured excellent emoji usage
and began with a request for "nut-related snacks."
i'm thankful for the beauty of the white skies that we get here sometimes at night, which i
must have experienced before but which i don't remember experiencing anywhere else
i've lived before. i'm thankful that i look up at the sky more than maybe i used to and
that's why i notice them here. i'm thankful for the view of the white sky i got last night
through the top pane of the window in our back bathroom. i'm thankful for the way that
the finely inked lines of the tree in our neighbor's front yard were framed against the
white sky.
i'm thankful of how that view reminded me of a moment in film school, when i shot a
similar, sharp-focus image of a tree up a pedestrian tunnel against a blank sky and left it
freeze framed on the avid in the lab while i went down the hall to get a soda. i'm thankful
for sandro, a brazilian grad student who did capoeira and who everybody thought was the
the coolest, and i'm thankful for how when i came back to the lab, he was standing over
my avid staring at the screen and told me with admiration that the frame looked like a
painting. i'm thankful for how that made me feel. i'm thankful for another moment he
made me feel cool, when i was played some bert jansch as we were auditioning music for
some stupid short and he was so excited that i knew who that was that he immediately
burned me a cd of burn the maps by the frames and made some kind of nice inscription in
sharpie on the face of it. i'm thankful for the way this makes me remember the
translucent orange discman i had in college and all the mp3 cd compilations i made for it
from rapidshare links on mp3 blogs and all the nice memories encoded in those layers of
polycarbonate.
i'm thankful thinking of bert jansch makes me think of nick drake which makes me think
of my favorite alternate guitar tuning, BEBEBE, which i would often put my acoustic into
in college in order to "break up my patterns" and "find new melodies." i'm thankful to
remember how this annoyed my friend and "bandmate" jb (i’m thankful for flying grape
jelly, which was our band name) and i'm thankful for the moment my sophomore year
when i was vamping in BEBEBE in our apartment's living room and a girl who was
visiting my roommate came out of my roommate's room and down the hall and into the
living room to ask me what tuning the guitar was in, which was just the kind of thing i
fantasized about a girl asking me in college, even if i ended up making the ensuing
conversation weird in some way i can only remember as a ghostly cringe.
i'm thankful for the weird person i was then and the weird person i am now.
12/2/15
i'm thankful for the excellent run that i had at lunch today. i'm thankful that the tall, thin,
incredibly fast jamaican guy who always smokes everybody was there and i'm thankful
that i kept him from passing me for several laps, the two of us running in sync, side by
side. i'm thankful that a little while after he eventually did zoom past me, he slowed to a
jog and i passed him at a slightly faster jog and gave him a thumbs up and told him how
he was killing it and he smiled and said that i was keeping up with him. i'm thankful how
i ran into him later outside the locker room and we smiled and told each other to have a
good day.
i'm thankful, in general, for how much more comfortable i feel with making small talk
and interacting with people now than i was when i was younger. i'm thankful that, in fact,
i often enjoy these conversations and interactions. i'm thankful for the small conversation
i had about changes in the weather with the guy in a huge down coat and wooly hat as we
stepped outside into the unexpected warmth of the afternoon. i'm thankful for the
conversation i had with the department chair when i complimented her on her skirt's
fringe (even though i don't really like fringe) and she bragged about the brown leather
knee high boots she had gotten for $19 from the macy's website on black friday. i'm
thankful for the small conversation i started with one of our advisors, who was sitting
alone and excluded from faculty conversations while we waited for a meeting to start. i'm
thankful for the hilarious story she told me about a friend who was vomited on not once,
but twice, by the person sitting next to her on a transatlantic flight.
i'm thankful that that stupid cliche phrase "fake it till you make it" really is kind of true
for some things. i'm thankful that forcing myself to smile because i work in customer
service has made me more naturally and comfortably smile all the time. i'm thankful to
use my smile and i'm thankful to think of it almost as a weapon of kindness—i’m thankful
for the moments when i see someone who looks unhappy or stressed out in the hallway
and i aim a smile at them and their face changes and i feel like a small good thing has
happened.
i'm thankful, while i'm running, to watch people shoot free throws on the basketball
courts in the center of the track. i'm thankful sometimes, as their balls arc through the
air, to wish for them to swish effortlessly into the net. i'm thankful for the ambient music
of the balls bouncing through the natural reverb of the gym as i sit on the sidelines and
meditate. i'm thankful that even though i'm always slightly afraid of being hit by a stray
ball, the only time it happened, the ball neatly rolled into my lap and i chest-passed it to
the player without even leaving lotus. i'm thankful for my sometimes fantasy of having a
basketball hoop and shooting free throws by myself as a meditative activity when i'm
older. i'm thankful that i'm finally letting go of the baggage of being bullied in 9th grade
gym class in tennessee by this asshole who called me "virginia slims." i'm thankful for the
moment when i was so fed up with failing to be able to dribble or pass or shoot or, worst
of all, make layups, that i broke down crying in the coach's office and begged him to let
me run stairs or do pushups or anything else instead of play basketball for one more day.
i'm thankful that he listened to me and let me run stairs, even though he didn't have to.
i'm thankful that i didn't have to take gym class after 9th grade and i'm thankful for the
way in college that i rediscovered (or, really, discovered for the first time) how wonderful
exercise can be. i'm thankful that i'm healthy enough and i have enough free time to be
able to exercise regularly.
i'm thankful for the bathroom mirror at the gym, which always makes my biceps look
bigger than they are for some reason (maybe the distance from it, or the angle?). i'm
thankful that even if i recently put on a little holiday weight, i feel comfortable with my
body. i'm thankful to imagine that next time i'm in miami, i could go to the clothingoptional beach that my parents love (though not with my parents, i don't think) and i
wouldn't really feel self-conscious at all.
i'm thankful for the moment yesterday, when i was trying to help one of the visiting
lecturers open up a file cabinet in her office—the drawers wouldn't open, but there was no
key hole, just a small metal knob where a keyhole might be. i'm thankful that we both
tried turning the small metal knob but it had no effect and we couldn't figure out why. i'm
thankful that when i asked people in the office if they'd ever experienced anything else
like this, they all said they hadn't. i'm thankful that when i asked my manager, she said
she'd come check it out. i'm thankful that when she turned the small metal knob, she had
the same experience that the visiting lecturer and i had. i'm thankful, then, for the
moment when she reached up and, grabbing the handle of the drawer, pressed the small
button on the side of the handle, which the visiting lecturer and i had not seen or
imagined or considered, and effortlessly pulled the top drawer open and then every other
drawer after it. i'm thankful for the laughter we all shared at that magically banal reveal.
i'm thankful to watch rows of students in basketball class make layups, one after another.
12/3/15
i'm thankful that my work phone rang this afternoon and the caller asked to speak with a
doctoral student who i know. i'm thankful that though the doctoral student does not have
an office or an office phone and is not usually around, she happened by chance to be in
the department office doing paperwork and i was able to call her over. i'm thankful for her
laughter at the coincidence of timing. i'm thankful that i wasn't very busy, so i could leave
the office and give her space to take the call. i'm thankful for the quiet laps i took around
the perimeter of the building, enjoying the peace while classes are in session. i'm thankful
that as i approached the office on my second lap, i could hear laughter and excited yelling.
i'm thankful that when i came in, i found out that the doctoral student, who is about to
defend her dissertation, just got a tenure track job offer from a school that she's excited
about. i'm thankful to have gotten to see the doctoral student, who just got divorced and
who, though incredibly nice, always seems harried and overwhelmed, jumping up and
down and beaming and literally squealing with joy like a child. i'm thankful for the joy of
the faculty members, who came out of their offices and down the hall to congratulate her
and share the experience. i'm thankful that i was able to participate in such a nice
moment.
i'm thankful for the other funny work phone call coincidence i experience today. i'm
thankful for the two strange dreams i had last night, one of which involved taking some
kind of digital hallucinogen and experiencing all kinds of strange colorful bubbly effects
and visiting an immersive art museum about the simpsons, and the other of which
involved being on a plane to seattle and not having a seat and being seated by the
stewardess in the empty bulkhead row and immediately afterward seeing a student who i
dislike (one of a very small number) coming down the aisle and me whispering to the
stewardess to tell the student that the row i was in was reserved and the stewardess
confidentially smiling at me and doing exactly that. i'm thankful that then, at work this
morning, i got a call from a visiting lecturer, whose cover letter for a job application i had
just extensively copyedited, asking me to proctor a make-up exam for a student, and,
when i said, "sure, what's the student's name?' her saying the name of the student who
was in the dream i had last night. i'm thankful for my laughter at this coincidence and her
laughter as i told her the story of the dream and for our commiseration about how
difficult a person the student can be.
i'm thankful i overheard another student in the hallway saying, about a faculty member,
'i'm so sad that i won't have a class with [redacted] next year--she's the best." i'm thankful
i reported this blind item to the faculty member in a short email and i'm thankful that she
replied with multiple emoji and told me i'd made her day.
i'm thankful that i forgot to bring my headphones to work today, because that made me
swim, which i haven't done in several weeks. i'm thankful that i remembered to take off
my wedding ring before i got in the pool, which i forgot to do the week after i got married
and lost the ring. i'm thankful that i chose a cheap wedding band, i'm thankful for the
warmth of the heated diving well on a sub-zero day. i'm thankful for the feeling of moving
through water. i'm thankful for the conversation i had with the lifeguards about which of
the clocks in the pool area was correct, which lead to one lifeguard being suddenly
amazed that a clock which had been broken for years had been fixed without her noticing.
i'm thankful that yesterday was such a good day and that today has been pretty great as
well. i'm thankful that it seems like there are so many things to be thankful for now that i
will never have time to write about them all. i'm thankful for that kind of abundance. i'm
thankful to scroll through the traces of these nice things in the phrases i drop in my email
drafts. i'm thankful that i have finally trained myself to stop putting two spaces after a
period.
i'm thankful for the speed with which i compiled my meeting minutes this morning. i'm
thankful for the note-taking strategy i developed, in which i make a worksheet out of the
agenda so i can only write what's important in a small block of space rather than endlessly
transcribing on a steno pad. i'm thankful to think about how stressful i used to find the
process of doing minutes, of trying to figure out what was and wasn't important and how
detailed or compressed a description to be, and to think about how now doing minutes is
almost a bit of fun for me, an exercise, like the way some people do crossword puzzles. i'm
thankful for the pride i feel in the accuracy and concision of my minutes. i'm thankful to
remember doing the crossword puzzle in the local paper at the kitchen table with my
mom when i was younger. i'm thankful for pencils and i'm thankful for their erasers,
since we were not smart enough to do them in pen.
i'm thankful for the tiny piece of down that got squeezed out of my coat when i
accidentally closed it in the door of the cabinet above my desk. i'm thankful for its
lightness, for the way that the force of the air displaced by my hand reaching for it was
enough to push it out of reach and up towards the ceiling. i'm thankful that things exist
which seem lighter than air.
12/4/15
i'm thankful for the way that fog haunts buildings and smudges the tops of trees into the
sky. i'm thankful for today's blanket of thick frost, which has shagged the carpet of the
grass in the field below the office. i'm thankful for the cheery water fountain conversation
i had with the sweet HR lady with the big hair who always calls me "mr. justin" in which
she accidentally said "freezing frost" when she meant "freezing fog."
i'm thankful that i did not get a good night of sleep last night, even though that really
sucked. i'm thankful because the difference between how i feel about life now and how i
have felt about life the past few days is instructive with regard to how important sleep is
to emotional stability. i'm thankful, then, for the corrosion of my rose colored glasses,
even though i also want to fix them as soon as possible. i'm thankful to know that i
should not take the antacid i took directly after taking my sleeping pill (or maybe at all!).
i'm thankful for the tonal variation my bad mood today will add to this project, which has
maybe been too #blessed lately.
i'm thankful for my morning yoga break. i'm thankful for handstands, for how inverting
myself can dislodge bad feelings, the way you invert a bottle to mix solids back into liquid.
i'm thankful for core strength.
i'm thankful it is december 4th. i'm thankful for kool a.d. and his amazing new one
hundred song long mixtape, which i have barely bitten into. i'm thankful for the dexterity
of his flows, for his diction and humor. i'm thankful for extravagant gestures. i'm thankful
for the looseness of the mixtape as a form and the possibilities contained with that
flexibility. i'm thankful for the chance and lil' b freestyle mixtape from a couple of months
ago. i'm thankful for the way that they make things seem possible. i'm thankful for the
invention of the sampler, for the beauty of reuse it has made possible. i'm thankful for
needle drops and crate diggers and that one episode of the cosby show that always gets
referenced.
i'm thankful for the lenny letter interview with my favorite actor/actress, elisabeth moss.
i'm thankful that she talks about considering buying a whiskey advent calendar and i'm
thankful, after forwarding the interview to d, that she said she too had considered buying
one (i’m thankful i got her a nail polish advent calendar). i'm thankful for d's great
drawing of her. i'm thankful for that scene of her walking down the hallway in sunglasses
smoking and carrying a painting of octopus sex and i'm thankful for that scene of her and
don drinking whiskey in his office at night and then slow dancing to the radio. i'm
thankful that we have a handle of whiskey at home and i can pour it into my brain after
work. i'm thankful there are less than four hours until the weekend. i'm thankful it is
friday, which means we get to have dessert. i'm thankful for dessert, both for the essence
of the concept and for all its specific manifestations.

12/5/15
i'm thankful for unexpectedly canceled plans. i'm thankful for [redacted] juicy gossip
about people i know. i'm thankful for gossip in general, even though i know it's probably
bad to be thankful for that. i'm thankful i'm not perfect and that none of my friends are
either. i'm thankful for complicated relationships and i'm thankful that i'm not in one.
i'm thankful for kimchi. i'm thankful for the last of the gallon jar of it i've been eating
portions of at work this week. i'm thankful for how filling and satisfying it is and how
much easier my life in korea was made by the fact that i like it. i'm thankful to have
clementines, which i use strategically after eating kimchi to try to erase the smell of the
kimchi. i'm thankful that though several people commented on the smell of the kimchi,
they were not rude or unpleasant about it. i'm thankful for the faculty member whose
office is closest to my desk, a kind man who, when i brought kimchi in the past, made
goodhearted jokes about the smell. i'm thankful that, unlike the last few days, when he
was clearly in a lot of pain (he is about to have surgery on his femur), a fact which was
emphasized to me by the fact that we did not banter about my kimchi, on friday he made
a joke about the smell and then, after i told him about my clementine strategy, told me
about how his wife simmers oranges and cloves and other aromatics on the stove all day
in the winter. i'm thankful for the warm distant glow in his eyes as he related this
anecdote which made it seem as if he was partially transported there just by describing it.
i'm thankful for the way language can erase space and time.
i'm thankful for proustian flatulence. i'm thankful that when i farted while in goddess
pose, the resultant digested kimchi smell reminded me viscerally of every elementary
school classroom i taught in when i lived in korea. i'm thankful for the ivy league names
that were assigned to rooms in the school where i taught (i’m thankful i mostly taught in
"oxford" and "harvard"). i'm thankful for the elevator i took up to the school, which was
on at least the tenth floor, and i'm thankful for the one time a troublemaker climbed out
the window onto the balcony and i was able to pull him back in before something bad
happened. i'm thankful for the time when i was spinning one of my favorite students,
"harry," in my office chair and i spun him so fast that the chair went off axis and fell
backwards onto the hard floor. i'm thankful that, after a brief second in which i was sure
that he'd cracked his skull and maybe died, as i leapt down to help him, i realized that that
because he was so short, he was completely cushioned by the back of the chair beneath
him and was fine and smiling and ready to go again. i'm thankful that sometimes
accidents don't happen.
i'm thankful that, while putting up posters promoting our department's graduate program
around campus yesterday, i found open bulletin board spaces. i'm thankful i didn't run
into anyone i know, which i was not in the mood for. i'm thankful that i got a break from
being in the office, even if it didn't improve my mood very much. i'm thankful that when i
got home, instead of listening to a podcast as i usually would, i put on music on the
bluetooth speaker. i'm thankful that even though the speaker is mono, it still sounds very
present. i'm thankful that singing along to "hey jude" while scrubbing plates scrubbed
away my bad mood, so that by the end of the song, as i danced along to mccartney's
improvised howling over the massed outro chorus, i felt like a different person who was
myself, the version of me i wanted to be inside. i'm thankful to sing along with music on
speakers, which is a different experience from singing along with music on headphones.
i'm thankful that after dinner last night, i ate an entire package of chips ahoy rainbow
m&m cookies. i'm thankful that the cookies were on sale for $2.49. i'm thankful that i
almost stopped myself halfway through the package, but continued to binge, even though
that was terrible and unnecessary and made me feel gross later, because sometimes it is
nice to treat yourself to affordable excess. i'm thankful for the dry, reliable crunch of the
cookies, for the processed chocolate, for the brightly-colored candy shell.
i'm thankful that it's almost ten o'clock and i'm still laying in bed. i'm thankful that i know
it's grammatically correct to use "lying" in that context, but i'm thankful that i prefer
"laying," which, with its opening syllable, conjures the sense of laziness that is essential
to laying. i'm thankful to lay, to have lain, to be laying.
12/6/15
i'm thankful that i woke up this morning after a good night's sleep to a pink sunrise
streaming through the gaps in the blinds. i'm thankful that i watched the colored sky, my
eyes in soft focus, until the hue dissolved into an ordinary white winter morning.
i'm thankful that we had our first long weekend walk since d's sciatica flared up recently.
i'm thankful that thanks to her chiropractor and her diligence in doing therapeutic
exercises, her back seems to be doing much better. i'm thankful for foam rollers and i'm
thankful for trigger point release. i'm thankful that though it was cold out, it wasn't very
windy. i'm thankful for the strange sensation where it seemed like it was raining or
snowing on us but there wasn't any rain or snow. i'm thankful what d realized by looking
up, which is that the drops must have been frozen onto the branches of trees and were
then, as the sun warmed the world, falling on us. i'm thankful for the tracery of delicate
melting crystals she pointed out on the branch of a small tree in a parking lot.
i'm thankful for the new barbecue restaurant we ate at, which was delicious. i'm thankful
for the fluffy cornbread and the complex pickles and the variety of delicious sauces. i'm
thankful for the ribs, which were perfectly smoked, all their fat rendered. i'm thankful to
d for treating me to the barbecue lunch in exchange for me writing a little jquery script
that solved a web design problem she was having earlier this week. i'm thankful for the
accomplishment and small sense of mastery i felt in being able to solve the problem for
her, and for the way that i realized that i could refactor the script to be more efficient. i'm
thankful for for loops.
i'm thankful that we couldn't eat all of our lunch, so we ordered more cornbread and
pickles to go and are going to have the leftovers for dinner tonight. i'm thankful that
means i don't really have to cook dinner tonight. i'm thankful that though the styrofoam
container of leftovers broke in a minor way on the long walk home, i was able to hold it
together. i'm thankful that it had warmed up enough outside by then that my hands
weren't cold even though i had to keep them out of my jacket pockets. i'm thankful to d's
coworker who has chickens and from whom we bought a large parcel of eggs at an
excellent price. i'm thankful to get to look at some recipes to figure out what we should
make to eat them up next week.
i'm thankful i'm almost done with my christmas shopping. i'm thankful that i have
enough money this year to treat the people i love to nice things that i think they'll like. i'm
thankful i found our tiny artificial christmas tree wedged under a box in the crowded
closet in the back of the house. i'm thankful for the many gifts, tangible and intangible,
that i've already received this year.
12/7/15
i'm thankful for an unseasonably warm and sunny afternoon yesterday. i'm thankful that
when i couldn't figure out what podcast i wanted to listen to while i ran and decided to
relisten to an old episode of food on franklin, there was in the feed, just uploaded, a new
episode. i'm thankful for food on franklin, which is the most soothing and gently
hilarious podcast i know. i'm thankful for the moment in the latest food on franklin when
taylor berman mentions making a pumpkin pie and accidentally leaving out a cup of sugar
and how that reminds me of when d made pumpkin pie and also forgot the sugar (i'm
thankful that despite her embarrassment, the pie was still edible, with a little maple syrup
and a lot of whipped cream, and i'm thankful that she made another a few days later). i'm
thankful that i didn't hurt myself while running and i'm thankful that i had the target on
the other side of town as my goal (or, rather, target (i’m thankful for puns)). i'm thankful
that though the target was ransacked, i was able to find a few small cheap packages of the
white lights that d requested to make the house more festive. i'm thankful that i bought a
specially flavored coke and cherry package of tic tacs, even if i remembered after eating
too many how bad they are for my teeth and how i shouldn't eat them. i'm thankful that
even while carrying a big shopping bag on one arm, i still passed multiple joggers on my
way home.
i'm thankful for the nice text conversation i had with my dad about a holiday beer sampler
that we both coincidentally bought on saturday. i'm thankful that even though i prefer
talking on the phone with them, i've gotten better at exchanging texts and emails with my
parents, which i used to find challenging. i'm thankful for both synchronous and
asynchronous forms. i'm thankful for the holiday beer sampler, from which my favorite
was either the cappucino stout or the cinnamon horchata ale. i'm thankful that i
restrained myself and did not add a shot of whiskey on top of my dinner beer like i
wanted to. i'm thankful for the kale and mixed greens and sliced grape salad i made and
i'm thankful for the half of a sesame seed bagel i had on the side.
i'm thankful to listen to good music on good speakers in our living room. i'm thankful,
after years of living in a second floor apartment where we had to turn the sub off and
constantly monitor treble levels, that we can listen to music with rich bass in high
definition. i'm thankful for abbey road and i'm thankful that d liked the dilla albums (the
“new” dillatronic and the classic donuts) that i put on in the background while she
worked and i played fallout 4. i'm thankful for the lockpicking minigame in fallout 4,
which is just difficult enough for me to find it weirdly satisfying. i'm thankful for the
subtle vibration the controller makes as i turn the pick in the keyhole. i'm thankful for the
great side quest that takes place in a high school, where a principal has a group of
troublemakers sell intelligence-enhancing drugs to the student body in order to improve
test scores. i'm thankful for the diary of the main troublemaker, who starts taking the
drugs himself and whose increase in intelligence is reflected both in the improved diction
and grammar of his entries and in the plot he hatches to blackmail the principal.
i'm thankful for the kardashians, always. i'm thankful for the scene of khloe and kourtney
ignoring kris to take selfies and how practiced and polished their selfie faces are. i'm
thankful for kim's love of beignets and churros and ice cream cones and cheesecake. i'm
thankful she went to paris mostly to eat churros, which seems absurd on a number of
levels. i'm thankful for how kim's fear, during her ultrasound, that her blood pressure will
be too high reminds me of my fear during ultrasounds and blood pressure checks in the
past. i'm thankful for the time at the urgent care in miami when the doctor brought a
student in to feel my heart murmur through her stethoscope. i'm thankful for the last
ultrasound i had, when the tech gave me a warm blanket to cover myself with in the dark
room and said it was fine if i put on my headphones to help calm myself down. i'm
thankful that my current cardiologist is nice and feels confident about my present and my
future.
i'm thankful for the caramel apple jolly rancher lollipop one of the doctoral students gave
me. i'm thankful when i get my yoga mat rolled perfectly neat and tight the first time. i'm
thankful for the experience, early this morning, of biking under the arm of a huge crane
hanging so low over the path that i could almost touch it with my fingertips.
12/8/15
i'm thankful for morning stretches, which prepare the body to bear the weight of the day.
i'm thankful for the pack of little boys who rumble down the alley on their way to school
each morning. i'm thankful that most of the time, it doesn't matter if i'm a few minutes
late to work. i'm thankful to be able to tumble my clothes in the dryer to harden their
armor against the cold. i'm thankful for fleece blankets.
i'm thankful that i finally rescheduled my dentist appointment for after the holidays. i'm
thankful that so far no one has submitted agenda items for the department meeting on
thursday and so it might be canceled. i'm thankful that a clerical task that i had put off
because it felt lengthy and onerous actually only ended up taking like an hour. i'm
thankful for the zen calm that putting together mailings can create in me. i'm thankful
when i am struck with easy inspiration for a post for our work social media.
i'm thankful that yesterday at the gym at lunch, they had registered me as not having
checked in my lock on friday, even though i know i checked it in. i'm thankful that one of
the students who is a major in our department and who i banter with occasionally works
for the gym and, when i jokingly asked her to vouch for me, said, very genuinely "i'm sure
justin's telling the truth—he's really really nice!" i'm thankful that the student on duty
listened to this testimonial and then took my id card and wiped out the record of me not
having turned in my lock and gave me a new lock. i'm thankful that, two thirds of the way
through my run, the cool runner i talked about last week smiled and waved at me from
the side of the track as he was stretching and i'm thankful, because i was tired and
wouldn't have been able to keep up with him even for a lap, that he decided to run
outside. i'm thankful that, though i worried, as my mind wandered during my run, that
the student on duty had felt peer-pressured to make an exception for me and might get in
trouble, when i came back to the equipment checkout desk to drop off my lock and towel
afterward, she said she'd found my missing lock in their storage and that the person on
duty the previous day must have just forgotten to check it in.
i'm thankful for the goodness and sweetness of the students i work with. i'm thankful for
the warm soft focus photos that a faculty member posted on facebook of a dinner the
department held for a group of undergraduates last night. i'm thankful for their dressy
sweaters and their styrofoam cups of hot chocolate. i'm thankful for the shy, quiet
chinese student with the bright smile who came in to the office yesterday to borrow a
book from a professor which he'd left on my desk and then posted up on the burgundy
couch on the other side of the office with her laptop and the book and started to work, as
students sometime do. i'm thankful that she worked there for hours in silence and then,
about an hour before the office closed, started to pack up and walked over to return the
book to me. i'm thankful that though i felt bad because she misunderstood that the
professor had sure intended to lend her the book so that she could take it home, when i
told her this, she said it was fine and that the office was actually a good place to work! i'm
thankful that the professor dropped in by chance just as she was walking down the
hallway and, despite his bad knee, lunged in to grab the book so that he could give it to
her before she left. i'm thankful for his laughter as i related the story to him.
i'm thankful that though i made a bitchy comment at my coworker yesterday afternoon
because i felt annoyed at her need for attention and praise (where I would usually just
nod and make affirmative yet disengaged noises), she was in such a good mood that it
bounced off seemingly (hopefully) without her noticing and i'm thankful that in a slow
motion split second i realized my break from decorum and being a decent person (which
is not the same as decorum) and regained my composure and papered over the rift in
pleasantness with laughter and a compliment. i'm thankful that, even if i sometimes get
annoyed with aspects of her personality that don't feel compatible with aspects of my
personality, my coworker is smart and works hard and is a good person. i'm thankful that
she is going on a long vacation next week, both for her sake and for my own.
i'm thankful for my work friend t. i'm thankful for the game we play of trying to surprise
each other in some way when we say hello to each other in passing during the week. i'm
thankful that yesterday, grasping at straws for something to do. i put two large pink postits on my glasses covering my eyes before i entered her office. i'm thankful for her
laughter and then, as i peeled off the post-its, my shock at the fact that she had shaved
her head over the weekend. i'm thankful for her immediate invitation to rub her shaved
head, which felt interesting, and for the anecdote another person told me in their office
about how she sweetly went around and asked whether anyone else would mind if she
shaved her head. i'm thankful they all said "no, of course not," and i'm thankful she
confessed to me that would have shaved it even if people had said yes.
12/9/15
i'm thankful for galangal, which i bought a knob of on a whim at the grocery store last
week. i'm thankful that we have enough international students here that they sell
galangal at kroger and i'm thankful for the privilege to be able to buy small luxuries on a
whim. i'm thankful for galangal, which packs an incredible amount of complex flavor and
power, and which is only rivaled in its intensity, in my experience, by sichuan
peppercorns. i'm thankful it's more of a bass herb, as opposed to the lemony treble of
sichuan peppercorns. i'm thankful i only ate a small piece of it. i'm thankful that i
survived the period where i was eating raw garlic daily because i was inspired by ilana
glazer saying she did it in some interview. i'm thankful for one of the most painful
experiences in my recent memory, when, inspired by this, i ate a tablespoon of finely
minced raw garlic on an empty stomach early in the morning and it felt like there was a
flood of molten lava burning a hole through the center of my body and i collapsed on the
floor with the pain of it, sweating profusely. i'm thankful that that experience, as horrible
as it was, was one of the most painful experiences in my recent memory, since it was brief
and contained and could have been much worse.
i'm thankful for poached eggs. i'm thankful that d cooked them last night and got the
yolks just the way i like them. i'm thankful i remembered to put beers in the fridge in the
morning so they'd be cold for dinner. i'm thankful for discovering last year how much
better roasted asparagus is if you roast it longer at a higher temperature (i recommend
450). i'm thankful for the maillard reaction. i'm thankful that i did not leave the pot of
israeli couscous i was waiting to cool out on the counter all night, like the last time i made
israeli couscous. i'm thankful for the box of peanut butter fudge that a faculty member
got gratis from a business partner and gleefully regifted to me. i'm thankful that d's friend
in her japan sent her a box of the sweet potato kitkats that she wanted to try, and i'm
thankful that though, in trying to toast it on a small sheet of aluminum foil as we were
instructed to do for maximum flavor value, we really just ended up melting it into a
puddle of white chocolate surrounding the wafer, it was still good and did taste uncannily
of sweet potato.
i'm thankful, in the hallways and on the sidewalks of campus, for the end of semester
bustle of wool and down and scarves and sweaters. i'm thankful that the girl who was
running across a parking lot to make her bus made it just in time. i'm thankful to hear the
kindly mormon faculty member's voice get the angriest i've ever heard it as he told a
telemarketer to never call him again, using polite language but in a tone that i, for
example, would use to tell someone to "fuck off and die." i'm thankful for another faculty
member, who is at a conference in australia right now and asked me to water his plants.
i'm thankful for his pale pink orchid, which is miraculously still in bloom. i'm thankful for
the treasure chest of hershey's nuggets that he always keep well stocked to motivate his
fellow faculty. i'm thankful for the funny (by the standards of office humor) sign i made
and put on his door to inform his many visitors of his absence. i'm thankful for the
student with a pixie haircut and a large black cyborg brace on her arm, who told me that
she broke a bone in her elbow while in her friend's kitchen making cinnamon rolls when,
for some reason, she began doing high kicks.
i'm thankful for how nice it feels to be able to give a student office supplies or to print or
copy something for them when they're stressed and trying to get things done at the last
minute. i'm thankful for the relief they exude when i tell them that yes, they can borrow
my stapler. i'm thankful for how much this tiny gesture might affect the emotional
contours of their day. i'm thankful for the long conversation i had with a doctoral student
about lap steel guitar, alternate tunings, the fairport convention, and nick drake. i'm
thankful that i had a nice conversation with the coworker i made the bitchy comment to
the other day, about her dating life and her plans for her long vacation. i'm thankful that
we had this conversation while we decorated the office with a small but well0lit christmas
tree and various holiday tchotchkes. i'm thankful for the hilarity of learning that what she
thinks the game twenty questions is is not what most of the world thinks the game
twenty questions is.
i'm thankful for the minor but important distinction between being told or telling
someone "have a nice day" and being told or telling someone "have a good day." i'm
thankful that though occasionally on the phone or in formal settings, i'll slip into the
robotic cliche of "have a nice day," i almost always use the warmer and more meaningful
"have a good day." i'm thankful to remember how OCD and anxious i was in high school,
when i depended on my mom to tell me to have a good day every day when she dropped
me off at school, because i thought that that was like an incantation and that if she forgot
to say it, i was sure to have a bad day (not that the incantation always prevented me from
having a bad day). i'm thankful that while i still think of the phrase as a kind of protective
spell, and while i tell it to d every morning and she tells it to me, i am not so dependent on
its effects to ensure my happiness. i'm thankful for my customer service role, which
affords me many opportunities every day to tell people, with genuine feeling, like making
a wish for them, to have a good day. i'm thankful for every opportunity to tell them, and
you, and myself, to have a good day.
12/10/15
i'm thankful for the sky in all its elegant variations. i'm thankful that last night, riding my
bike home slightly too drunk from the office christmas party, i could see so many stars in
the sky above the dark suburbs. i'm thankful, then, for the lack of street lights in our
town, even though they might have made my ride feel safer. i'm thankful for the term
"light pollution" and the way it reveals that what we often think of as aesthetic is actually
ecological. this morning, i'm thankful for the gorgeous orgy of turner hues battling in the
stratosphere. i'm thankful for their violent swirls, and how, in the course of my ride to
work, the colors were already sinking into the horizon. i'm thankful for ephemeral beauty
and for a chance to record it with language.
i'm thankful that i went to the office christmas party. i'm thankful that i didn't make up a
bullshit excuse like i did the last two years. i'm thankful having a bike makes me more
independent and so i didn't have to ask anyone for a ride. i'm thankful that though my
bike ride was arduous, it's cool enough out that i was only kind of sweaty when i got
there. i'm thankful for the tasty chocolate bock i had, and for the moment later when i
offered tasting notes to a taiwanese student wondering whether it was sweet. i'm thankful
that even though i couldn't figure out their complicated kitchen faucet to drink water, my
strategy of drinking miller lite "because it's basically water" did not result in any
tragedies. i'm thankful for the fun conversations i had about ramen and uniqlo and fitbits
and hors d'oeuvres and timeshares. i'm thankful for the adorable young daughter of a
faculty member who i chase through the office when she visits and who pulled me down
the stairs to the basement, where, to make her laugh, i collapsed into an inexplicably
enormous pile of stuffed animals. i'm thankful that later, she pulled me upstairs and
through a tiny crawl space door which opened up to a tiny hidden landing where we could
spy on the party and which she said was a secret i couldn't tell anyone about. i'm thankful
for the moment when she tried to lock me in the basement for some perceived slight i had
inflicted on her, but didn't turn the lock fully, so that i easily exited and returned to the
party for a while without her knowing. i'm thankful, when she eventually found me in the
crowd, to tell her that i escaped because i am magic. i'm thankful when i squatted down to
say goodbye to her, she affectionately bonked me on the top of my head.
i'm thankful for the various sensations that add texture to the day. i'm thankful for the
moment, when i built an unwieldy tower of heavy cardboard boxes of old research
materials on a cart, when i sensed an imminent collapse and was able to avert it by
pressing into it with my chest. i'm thankful for the salty grease of the double
cheeseburger i got from wendy's on my way home last night. i'm thankful for the
delicious chemical slurry of melted chocolate frosty in the paper cup that i got for d. i'm
thankful, while brushing my teeth this morning, for a moment of standing on top of an
active heating vent while wearing only my bathrobe. i'm thankful for the strange deja vu
of seeing someone i had a class with in grad school years ago at the gym with his hair
dyed ice blue and then seeing him again, a few hours later, walking down the street on the
other side of town. i'm thankful for whatever brand of cigarettes it is that produces smoke
that smells like slightly over-toasted chocolate fudge pop-tarts, which i smelled while
inflating my back bike tire. i'm thankful for the times when you can realize that you're
having a good day in the midst of it and recognize it then and lock your feelings into a
feedback loop, the good bringing more good bringing more good, rather than only
realizing how happy you were in retrospect, though i am also thankful when i can do that.
12/11/15
i'm thankful for the squirrel who i came upon while he dug into the dirt at the base of a
dogwood tree outside the art museum. i'm thankful for his industrious clawing and then
his self-conscious glance back at me. i'm thankful that rooting my feet to the ground and
holding my arms tight against my sides convinced him that i was not a threat and that he
could continue digging while i watched. i'm thankful i got the chance to watch him
digging there for a few minutes before he ran off to dig somewhere else. i'm thankful for
theodore robert bowie, in whose memory the tree was planted. i'm thankful for the subtle
dedication marker that i learned that from, as well as for the way the marker taught me
that the tree is, more specifically, a chinese dogwood (cornus kousa (i'm thankful for
things that have latin names)).
i'm thankful that a failed omelette is just the larval stage of a successful scramble. i'm
thankful for caramelized mushrooms and onions. i'm thankful for extra sharp cheddar
cheese (i'm thankful, even if maybe i couldn't pass a blind test with regular sharp, for
what the extra implies) and i'm thankful for the way it melts. i'm thankful for what
sweetness sliced red grapes add to a simple dinner salad. i'm thankful for beer and i'm
thankful for more beer. i'm thankful for how peaceful a night at home feels after a night
out. i'm thankful for d putting her legs up on my lap on the couch while she works. i'm
thankful for listening to music on good speakers with the sound muted on our video
games. i'm thankful for the chromecast audio that d gave me as an early christmas
present, which allows me to listen to music on good speakers while also reading twitter
and googling things and making notes for these emails and other important activities.
i'm thankful for a tweet that reminded me of magic mike xxl, which was my favorite
movie of the year by far. i'm thankful for the overwhelming sense of joy in that movie, for
the incredible cinematography; i'm thankful that it is the first time i have truly
appreciated dance as an art form; i'm thankful for the way that each set piece is better
than the last. i'm thankful for "pony." i'm thankful that another tweet, which mentioned
do you like prince movies, hyperlinked in my brain to the first one to remind me that i
never listened to the episode where they talk about magic mike xxl because i wanted to
avoid spoilers. i'm thankful for the times when you realize, after something you loved has
ended, that you missed a little part of it and can go back to it again. i'm thankful for the
sense of wonder of alex and wesley's conversation about the movie, for the affection they
always have for each other, for their thoughtfulness and spirit of inquiry, for the way they
encourage each other and support each others' ideas. i'm thankful for wesley's great
analogy about the movie, that magic mike xxl wrings out the question marks of magic
mike and then dips what's left in a bucket of exclamation points. i'm thankful that the
podcast was so great for so long, and i'm thankful for the opportunity to miss it and to
hope for it to return in some form or another.
i'm thankful for the error message soundcloud gave me when i tried to like the song
"soap" by melanie martinez. i'm thankful for the way it said "unable to like—try again
later" and the way that seemed so human of it. i'm thankful for open mike eagle's ep "a
special episode of." i'm thankful for his voice on an early verse rapping, "you can watch us
on the newsfeeds / fucking y'all's mornings up / until America admits that it likes dogs
more than us / and i can see the super bowls of the future: / the ferguson blacks vs.
missouri state troopers / the privacy rights vs. the personal computers / concussion
researchers vs. university boosters / i graduated college, i purchased all the extra books /
i'm supposed to be living in a house with a breakfast nook." i'm thankful for polysyllabic
rhymes and i'm thankful when someone can use them to say something.
12/12/15
[no entry]
12/13/15
i'm thankful that i took yesterday off from writing these notes, and i'm thankful that i've
decided i'll allow myself one day off a week if i want it. i'm thankful that i don't think i'll
always want it. i'm thankful i spent the time i might have spent writing this yesterday
meditating. i'm thankful i used earplugs to meditate, even if some people on the internet
consider that to be "cheating." i'm thankful for lazy weekend days. i'm thankful that the
bible even describes god, who is all powerful, as wanting/needing to take a rest after
creating the world. i'm thankful that in just a week and a half, we'll be on vacation again.
i'm thankful that, because of the absence of students and many faculty and my coworker,
the next week at work should be very chill for me, with plenty of time for correspondence
and personal projects. i'm thankful for my coworker's homemade wine, which she gave
me for christmas and which is a bit too sweet for my taste but actually not that bad. i'm
thankful that i thought of funny gifts for my manager and the office accountant that i
think they'll enjoy.
i'm thankful for the nice long walk we had yesterday. i'm thankful that it was incredibly
66 degrees in december in the midwest, and i'm thankful that it will be that warm again
today. i'm thankful for the continual surprise and wonder we felt at how warm it was, how
every few seconds it was like, "whoa, is this real, how am i feeling this?" i'm thankful for
how we accidentally wandered onto the route of a mini-marathon on our walk, and how
the cool guy from the track was running it and said hi to me and d. i'm thankful for the
long conversation d and i had about the intricacies of daredevil, which she has been
watching while on the treadmill, and about how christian theology and cosmology
interacts or doesn't with superhero worlds. i'm thankful for the brief failed facetime we
had with my family, who were sitting in a diner and waiting on steak and eggs and
chicken and waffles. i'm thankful that despite the poor connection, i still made several
funny jokes.
i'm thankful for a lazy browse around a bougie supermarket. i'm thankful for mangos that
were 4 for a dollar and limes that were 5 for a dollar, even if these probably speak to a
horrible supply chain that is destroying the earth (i'm thankful for the small possibility
that this is not the case, because of the veneer of responsible consumption (whatever that
is) that is a major pillar of the bougie supermarket's brand). i'm thankful for the small bag
of freeze dried mandarin oranges i bought, which were weird but not that good, and for
the small bag of salted caramel flavored yogurt pretzels, which were normal and very
good. i'm thankful that we got home from our walk just in time for lunch, and i'm
thankful that we still had caramelized onions and mushrooms left over to put in our
scrambled eggs. i'm thankful that the new dinner recipes i tried on friday and saturday,
for a kind of faux bibimbap and a mu shu chicken, both turned out, despite my grumbling
and complaining, really well and will, i think, become part of our regular repertoire. i'm
thankful that though i made some kind of mistake cooking the brown rice for the faux
bibimbap and scorched the bottom of the pressure cooker, it actually gave the rice a nice
nurungji feel and the pressure cooker mostly came clean. i'm thankful for sungnyung,
scorched rice tea, which i had for the first time with d's family at a sundubu restaurant in
LA and which was delicious. i'm thankful d and i had enough restraint on friday night not
to eat any of the gelato i'd bought because we were full, and i'm thankful the tiny plastic
spoon we were using to eat it last night broke halfway through the carton, which created
enough distance from the golden peanut butter chocolate binge for us to stop and save
the rest for tonight.
i'm thankful for wildheart by miguel and a new place to drown by archy marshall, which
have, i think, a kind of kinship of palette and technique and relationship to the previous
albums by their creators. i'm thankful that though i don't think i like either of them as
much as the previous albums by their creators, maybe because they lose some of the
lightness and joy which are my key musical values and which were infused into the
melancholic space of the previous albums, i still respect these albums as artistic steps
that they took. i'm thankful that they're trying different things and releasing things
rather than feeling stuck in the ruts of a sound. i'm thankful for their old songs, too,
though. i'm thankful for "do you" and "adorn" and "kaleidoscope dream" which i
remember listening to often on repeat while walking though snow in the dark to a late
seminar during my final semester of grad school and thinking of how much i loved d and
how the songs enabled me to bathe in that love even in the darkness of her absence. i'm
thankful for that seminar, which i got [redacted] before every time and how for the first
time i felt confident in my voice among a group of english literature doctoral students,
who always intimidated me with their command of obscure theorists and foreign
languages. i'm thankful for the opportunity the class gave me to reread infinite jest and
i'm thankful for the professor, who i thought was amazing and crazy and whose words i
would automatically transcribe into notebooks, inserting line breaks by instinct to create
a kind of artificial poetry.
i'm thankful for the haircut that d gave me in the kitchen and i'm thankful that
vacuuming my hair off the kitchen floor got me in the mood to vacuum the whole house.
i'm thankful that vacuuming the whole house created the possibility for me to clean out
some things and rearrange some things, making space in nooks and crannies that made
the house kind of new again. i'm thankful for neatness and order and an absence of dust.
i'm thankful for the great debates podcast, which kept me entertained while i worked. i'm
thankful that though i forgot the load of whites in the washer until late in the evening,
there was still time to dry them before bed. i'm thankful for how clean sheets feel, and for
how they smell. i'm thankful for cleaning the lint trap, for the way that doing so makes
visible and concrete the mysterious hidden work of the dryer.
12/14/15
i'm thankful that though it was raining during my ride to work this morning, it was just
intermittent sprinkles. i'm thankful that it's still warm outside, so the rain wasn't as
unpleasant. i'm thankful that though i didn't hit all the lights right, i got stopped at my
favorite intersection downtown, where i can read the marquees for the local indie rock
club and the local comedy club. i'm thankful when i can recognize names of acts visiting
our town, even if i'll probably never go out to see them. i'm thankful to feel not totally
behind the zeitgeist, even i can’t be the zeitgeist anymore.
i'm thankful for the older faculty member who described the rapidly blinking christmas
tree light setting i'd chosen as "psychedelic." i'm thankful for the memory i had of the
christmas in high school when my parents gave me the nuggets ii box set, which i had
really wanted. i'm thankful for how lavish it seemed, for the booklet and the stack of CDs.
i'm thankful that i was part of the last generation (barring some sort of apocalypse?) to
experience a period when music was material and scarce. i'm thankful for how much i
cherished that box set, and the cds i got from the columbia house record club that same
winter, which seemed like heaven manna. i'm thankful for the soundtrack to ken burns'
jazz which was my introduction (don't laugh) to jazz. i'm thankful for the record store in
the same plaza as the movie theater i worked in the summer after high school, where i
found one of my all-time favorite albums in the bargain racks. i'm thankful for the way
that before i had done [redacted], psychedelic music felt like [redacted]. i'm thankful that
for some of the music, a trace of that feeling remains, a musical contact high. i'm thankful
for cheap foam over-ear headphones. i'm thankful that i have spotify now, though. i'm
thankful that it's monday and that means a new discover weekly playlist.
i'm thankful for the wolfpack, which we watched on saturday. i'm thankful for the
beautiful strangeness of it and how sadness is mixed with tenderness and hope. i'm
thankful for how much the kids love each other and how much they love their mother.
i'm thankful for how, when, nervous out in the world, they slip into roles and recitations
of movie scenes to feel safer. i'm thankful to watch them go to the ocean for the first time.
i'm thankful for the way that their story helps us to think about the importance of
representations and fiction to our lives, how those things shape our perception of the
world. i'm thankful, in a world overflowing with content, in which those things are
devalued financially, to see their emotional and spiritual value. i'm thankful for the final
scene of the movie, the frolic in the orchard in the golden light.
i'm thankful that in the car on the way to the grocery store, the classic rock radio station
played "another one bites the dust" followed by "i touch myself." i'm thankful for the
tacos i made, and i'm thankful to have tacos after not having had tacos for a long time. i'm
thankful i quick-pickled carrots to go in them, which added a nice brightness. i'm thankful
that d found the cumin i couldn't find, which was crucial to the flavor. i'm thankful that i
discovered it's much less messy and time-consuming to make cauliflower "rice" by hand
using a sharp grater braced over the mouth of a bowl than it is to make it in the food
processor. i'm thankful that greek yogurt can be substituted for sour cream without really
missing anything. i'm thankful that "sweetos," the "limited edition" cinnamon sugar
cheetos that we impulse bought, turned out to be completely delicious, with a perfect
sweet/salty balance. i'm thankful we had leftover gelato for dessert.
i'm thankful that i trimmed my nose hair. i'm thankful to cross things off my to-do list.
i'm thankful that we're in that liminal phase of pre-vacation, which means the office is
empty and people aren't giving me much work to do. i'm thankful that i'm working to be
more intentional with my breathing and i'm thankful to remember the importance of
matching deep inhales with deep exhales. i'm thankful that in chilean spanish, apparently
"healing" and "getting drunk" are the same phrase.
12/15/15
i'm thankful for ds, who delivers our bulk print orders. i'm thankful how he often sneaks
in silently to drop off his overstuffed envelopes of quizzes and tests, but how sometimes i
catch him in the act of document delivery. i'm thankful that yesterday, he decided to sit
down in the visitor's chair and talked to me for a while about his life, about his wife and
how they don't have any children and how he likes having little kids around the
neighborhood to spoil at christmas. i'm thankful i sat down to encourage him to talk more
and i'm thankful that the fluorescent lights in that part of the office were taken out so
that we were mostly lit by the flickers of the christmas tree. i'm thankful to hear about his
recent tour of historic homes in madison, of his description of the complex blend of
boredom and education that he experienced, and how he told me about how they try to
visit a few of the national parks every year on their vacations. i'm thankful for his
essential charlie brown-ness, for the way that fibers of boyish joy and excitement are
woven through a coat of melancholy.
i'm thankful for how he, like a lot of people here, is quietly very good at his job while also
not taking the job seriously at all. i'm thankful for ml and tm in the dean's office, who
were my first and sweetest introduction to this attitude of caring while not caring (i'm
also thankful for ml's red christmas sweater with snowflakes today). i'm thankful to ml,
who gave me homemade pickles and jam and spaghetti sauce after she heard i got
married. i'm thankful for the professor i heard the other day, through his office door,
improvising a song in a rich faux-operatic baritone about checking things off his to-do list.
i'm thankful, after identifying with this worldview for so long in which my occupation had
to also be my identity and my deepest passion, that this job has helped me to more deeply
understand how that doesn't have to be true and how you can still have a very happy life
doing something that doesn't seem all that important or relevant to "who you are." on the
other hand, i'm thankful for the waves of occasional dissatisfaction and ennui i
experience with this job, for how they motivate me to try new things and consider
alternate possibilities. i'm thankful for the peace of the office and the campus as the
students and faculty slowly disperse across the state and the country in cars, buses, and
planes.
i'm thankful for the #fredcember series of vlogs. i'm thankful for vlogs in general, which
at their best, feel like virtual friendships (i'm thankful for podcasts, which do a similar
thing, but i'm thankful for the way that vlogs give me access to the visual texture of other
places in the world and capture a greater sense of the totality of quotidian moments in a
way that other forms don't/can't). i'm thankful to find vloggers who are committed to
their work as an art form rather than just a platform for commerce, even though i
understand the need to think of it as a platform for commerce. i'm thankful for michelle
phan, whose brand command calls to mind beyoncé, i'm thankful for lily pebbles, mostly
for her fiancee, i'm thankful for essiebuttons (who was the first vlogger i enjoyed, and
whose videos d and i marathoned while going up on [redacted], though she has now
gotten to slick and self-satisfied to me). i'm thankful for vivianna, who is so sweet and
charming. i'm most thankful for fran, who is half of #fredcember: i'm thankful for the
earlier series cartas a ed (letters to ed), which i think are the saddest and most poetic
examples of the vlog form.
i'm thankful for clementines. i'm thankful for store brand sugar smacks, which i bought
in a bag so that i can overfill my bowls every morning. i'm thankful for cereal milk. i'm
thankful for the difference between a coarse grate and a fine grate. i'm thankful for the
pumpkin flavored tortilla chips that someone brought to the office, which despite my
skepticism are surprisingly tasty. i'm thankful for all the chips and salsa i ate in the past,
before my stomach decided that consuming them is like consuming broken glass and
battery acid. i'm thankful for the bath salts that d got as a giveaway and gave away to me
since she doesn't take baths, and thankful for my stupid amusement at trying to construct
a google query about them ("how to use bath salts in the bath"). i'm thankful for the way
they bloomed as i poured them into the tub and how, dissolved, they turned my bathwater
a lurid shade of pink.
12/16/15
i'm thankful for my morning yoga in an empty gym. i'm thankful that, unlike so many
people, i have a labor union that collectively bargains for my benefits and that they
recognize the importance of breaks to my mental and emotional health. i'm thankful that
even though our governor is a vile piece of dog shit, he's at least not scott walker. i'm
thankful for doing one-legged downward dog, which i hadn't done for a while and which
felt especially good. i'm thankful for the smoothness of threading my leg through my
arms to transition from that into warrior one. i'm thankful for the solidity of the black
foam mats in the gym.
i'm thankful that yesterday, there was a faculty/staff luncheon in the gym and i asked
some of the visiting lecturers to go with me. i'm thankful because it was such a simple
thing for me to do now and was something i would have found impossible to do in the
past. i'm thankful that my life has changed so much from my second high school in
tennessee, where every day lunch was a thirty minute panic attack of roaming the
hallways in nomadic circles and hiding in different bathroom stalls to avoid being seen
alone. i'm thankful i don't have to live in those loops anymore, waiting until i could get to
my history class and escape another day's "free time." i'm thankful to remember how on
september 11th, i felt less alone than normal because all of the teachers were sitting in my
history class during lunch and watching TV and it was okay for me to sit quietly with
them and eat my ham sandwich, because we were participating in a historical moment.
i'm thankful that at lunch yesterday, the visiting lecturers and i had a great time joking
and laughing and talking about the mediocre food (i'm thankful that though it was the
second-worst macaroni and cheese i've ever had, it was still a free lunch). i'm thankful to
learn about their holiday plans, about life in taiwan, and about the tradition of funeral
strippers. i'm thankful for this sentence on the topic from wikipedia: "In some Asian
cultures, particularly in Taiwan, the impetus for exotic dancing is that the family
members want to have a well-attended funeral "to ensure that the deceased travels well
into the afterlife"; in addition, like having a well-attended wedding, having many people
at a funeral is a mark of prestige, and bringing entertainment to a funeral is one way to
accomplish this."
i'm thankful that even though i undercooked the brown rice for dinner, i didn't scorch the
pressure cooker this time. i'm thankful for another chance to do it better tonight. i'm
thankful that we didn't really miss the red cabbage i forgot to buy, and thankful that i
finally used up the last of the two gallon jar of kimchi. i'm thankful that after dinner, i
permitted myself to continue eating sweetos, further study of which has revealed a
buttery bass note to match the harmony of sweet and savory. i'm thankful that the
mangoes i bought on saturday might finally be ripe enough to eat for dessert.
i'm thankful that even though i felt caught in the undertow of a wave of despair yesterday
evening, i was able to recognize it early and keep it from enveloping me. i'm thankful for
antidepressants and i'm thankful for deep breathing. i'm thankful for my new electric
toothbrush head, which gets my teeth so clean, and i'm thankful that rather than looking
at my phone, i'm going to be more mindful while i brush, which will benefit my mental
and emotional (as well as dental) health (and will also keep my new electric toothbrush
head from getting chewed on). i'm thankful that i've given up my long-held prejudice
against historical fiction (even if there are still things about it i find strange) and that this
david mitchell novel was a place for my brain to go.
i'm thankful, though i normally hate epigrams and platitudes about creativity, for this
quotation from martha graham that patricia lockwood posted on twitter: "there is a
vitality, a life-force, an energy, a quickening that is translated through you into action
and because there is only one of you in all of time, this expression is unique. and if you
block it, it will never exist through any other medium and be lost. the world will not have
it. it is not your business to determine how good it is nor how valuable nor how it
compares with other expressions. it is your business to keep it yours clearly and directly,
to keep the channel open. you do not even have to believe in yourself or your work. you
have to keep open and aware directly to the urges that motivate you. keep the channel
open." i'm thankful for the authority and power of that statement, for the reassurance it
provides, and also for the next sentence after it, which, after that grand pronouncement, i
find hilarious in its specificity: "as for you, agnes, you have a peculiar and unusual gift
and you have so far used about one third of your talent." i'm thankful to be able to hope
that i haven't used my full talent yet, and that i am keeping the channel open.
12/17/15
i'm thankful for a thought i had while writing yesterday's thank you notes, but forgot to
include, which has to do with the increments of time we use to remember and evaluate
our experience of our lives. i'm thankful that, though i felt bad the other day and though
as the day went on, the veil of that bad feeling draped over everything, so that, in my mind
in bed at the end of the day, it seemed incontrovertibly true that i had had a bad day,
actually, when i reexamined the day not as this over-arching macro abstraction of "bad
day," but as a series of concrete instants of experience, my perception of it changed. i'm
thankful for the perspective to see that on this "bad day," lots of nice things happened to
me and there were a plethora of small slices of time when i was perfectly content. i'm
thankful for the presence of mind to recognize nice moments in the course of my day and
set down traces of them in notes to be able to remind myself later that my life is usually
okay (and often wonderful) even when, because of unfortunate reactions in my brain
chemistry, it feels like it isn't.
i'm thankful to be reminded of the moment near the end of infinite jest where gately is
undergoing constant, unimaginable pain in his hospital bed and realizes that the only way
to bear it without painkillers is to subdivide time into smaller and smaller segments, to
avoid losing himself in a hope-destroying droste effect future spiral but instead to stay
with the present, to focus on each second of survival of the pain of being alive as an
accomplishment, to think "this pain is so terrible, but i bore it for this second and i'm still
here, and now another second of this terrible pain has gone by and i'm still here, and now
another second of the pain has gone by" and so on. i'm thankful for my mom for buying
me the paperback of that book before i went to live alone in an apartment in korea for a
year and i'm thankful for the opportunity i had, in my last semester of grad school, to
reread it carefully and annotate it for a class. i'm thankful for the british doctoral student
who seemed to be the only other person besides me and the professor who enjoyed the
book and wanted to talk about it. i'm thankful for her enthusiasm, which made me feel
like less of an outcast for my enthusiasm, even as, when it came time to fill out our
evaluations, another student compared our shared affection for the professor to
stockholm syndrome.
i'm thankful that it's almost christmas vacation. i'm thankful to remember this time of
year last year, when d was in california and i was stuck here in a deserted town feeling
terribly alone and depressed, eating mediocre fish tacos and binge-watching generation
kill. i'm thankful for generation kill, which handles the passage of time in a more
interesting way than maybe any television show i have ever seen and which dealt with
war and bureaucracy and politics and what it means to be an american with a level of
complexity that is extremely rare. i'm thankful for the eternal nordic dreaminess of
alexander skarsgard. i'm thankful that d isn't going anywhere this christmas and and i'm
not going anywhere this christmas and we'll be together in our house for a week and a
half instead of having to go through airports or down freeways. i'm thankful to imagine all
the fun that we'll have. i'm thankful for d, who after days of struggling to roll the perfect
snowman in her animal crossing town, has finally succeeded.
i'm thankful for the professor who told me about how the actress responsible for the
voice of siri randomly followed him on twitter. i'm thankful for motion sensor lights, and
for my memory of running staircases in the winter in my highrise apartment building in
korea, the lights lagging at each landing slightly behind my pace. i'm thankful that i
taught the word "hijinks" and its meaning to one of the visiting lecturers. i'm thankful for
the shared glance of bemusement that i had with an IT person as she dealt with a difficult
client. i'm thankful for my new short hair, especially after i take showers at the gym at
lunch. i'm thankful, though they are dangerously for my self-discipline and diet, for the
cornucopia of delicious baked goods that continue to arrive at the office. i'm thankful for
the enormous tub of caramel corn that d gave me as an early christmas present. i'm
thankful that even though i scorched the brown rice again, we had enough cauliflower for
me to grate to go with our leftover bibimbap and it was actually maybe even better than
the brown rice would have been. i'm thankful that though i stupidly left the leftovers of
the leftover bibimbap on the counter for several hours after dinner "to cool," there wasn't
that much of it left to spoil and we have pasta to eat. i'm thankful that the blinking red
light on the back of my bike, which i keep forgetting to turn off when i lock it up in the
morning, has not died. i'm thankful for the opportunity to stop writing this email to go
turn it off now.
12/18/15
i'm thankful that i had a horrible night last night. i'm thankful that i woke up at 2am and
couldn't go back to sleep within a few minutes, for the first time in a long time. i'm
thankful for the weird sensation of waking up with a start in a cold sweat from what had
to have been a nightmare but not being able to remember a single detail of what the
nightmare was. i'm thankful for how that reminded me of the ontological paradox of
twilight anesthesia. i'm thankful to have a kindle with a light in it. i'm thankful to have
read a description of a fictional character suffering from insomnia ("night insects trill,
tick, bore, ring; drill, prick, saw, sting. hanzaburo snores in the cubbyhole outside jacob's
door. jacob lies awake, clad in a sheet, under a tent of netting. ai, mouth opens; ba, lips
meet, ga, tongue's root; wa, lips. involuntarily, he reenacts today's scene over and over.")
while suffering from insomnia myself. i'm thankful for the trippy dreams that i had, at
least for the ones i can remember. i'm thankful for the long dark horrible stretches when i
manically questioned whether i was losing all capacity for thought and reasoning and
expression. i'm thankful for the space rocket history podcast, which i think is the best
insomnia podcast, despite its obnoxiously loud AM radio jay electronica bumper music,
because of the quiet and friendly but authoritative voice of the host and the sprawling
profusion of dry technicalities in each episode. i'm thankful to have listened to the
painstaking process by which NASA took apart their lander craft after the apollo one fire,
documenting in triplicate each turn of a screw.
i'm thankful that all this bullshit happened last night, thankful because it contributed to
the immense force of the dumbass epiphany i had at 6:30am this morning that i forgot to
take my sleeping pill before i went to bed. i'm thankful that i will not forget to take it
again anytime soon. i'm thankful for pharmacology and i'm thankful that i have good
health insurance. i'm thankful for my new pharmacist, who, without me asking, switched
me from tablets to capsules and cut my prescription costs significantly.
i'm thankful for this dream i had about my friend j last night, which i described to her this
morning when she coincidentally emailed me about hanging out after christmas: "in the
dream, d and i were living across the hall from you three in a mediocre building of small
studio apartments. we came home from errands one evening to find your door open.
inside, k was bustling about with a kitchen towel slung over his shoulder, putting away
dishes in various misshapen german expressionist cupboards and cabinets. i inquired
after you and k pointed to a shadowy corner of the room, where you were apparently
sleeping after a difficult night, and told me to whisper so as not disturb you. while k
cleaned, d and i played with your child, who, in my dream, was a little girl named betsy
(the other day irl i was playing with the boisterous five year old daughter of a faculty
member named betsy). in the dream, "betsy" was much older than i had remembered
and had an amazing vocabulary for a toddler. i kept praising "betsy" for this as she
danced and we played; k smiled and nodded politely at me, but in an almost
imperceptibly strange way. after a time, i gradually became aware of you emerging from
the corner. as i sang a song with "betsy," swinging her arms up and down, you gave me
this disturbed look, like the facial equivalent of "what the fuck is wrong with you?" i took
this look as a sign that we had rudely intruded on your space and d and i quickly said
goodbye and went across the hall. as soon as we had closed our door, i was struck, as if
by lightning, by the epiphany that your child was a boy named noah and that the reason
you were disturbed was that, to me, she was a girl named betsy. in the dream, i collapsed
with spasms of painful laughter intense enough to wake me up."
i'm thankful for eos brand lip balm, which i think is the best-tasting lip balm and which
comes in a container which is pleasing both to look at and to touch. i'm thankful that d's
addiction to lip balm means there is one of them in basically every room of our house. i'm
thankful for the chocolate caramels a faculty member gave me as a christmas present. i'm
thankful for the revelation that my manager, who has never struck me as a history buff, is
obsessed with john f. kennedy and likes to watch tv documentaries about him and
compare them to what she's learned from books she's read about him. i'm thankful that
that made me think of that eileen myles poem.
i'm thankful that after a month of accumulation of layers of paper and crud, i finally had
time to clean off my desk at work. i'm thankful for the clean plane of empty space, for the
soft fluorescent highlights. i'm thankful that when my coworker gave me her login
credentials so i could send a mass email from her account while she's on vacation, i
completely resisted the desire to snoop.
i'm thankful for the two girls in the gym who were jumping invisible jump-ropes on the
sidelines of the basketball court. i'm thankful for their commitment to the illusion, for
the way their wrists turned as they swung the ropes.
12/19/15
i'm thankful to get let out of work a little early on a friday afternoon. i'm thankful to the
faculty member who let me out of work a little early, and i'm thankful for the
conversation i had with him in the men's restroom before, during, and after he used the
toilet (he spoke from the stall) about the beauty of the northeast in general and portland,
maine in particular. i'm thankful i unplugged the office christmas trees before leaving so
he would not have to stoop to do so. i'm thankful for the joking rapport we have and for
his good nature. i'm thankful for another faculty member's genuine enthusiasm,
expressed to her colleague, about having found a two-for-one coupon for a low quality
chain soup restaurant in her purse. i'm thankful that maybe she was genuinely excited
about the low quality soup (i'm thankful that most people are not as snobby about food as
i am), but i'm thankful that it's more likely she was happy for the opportunity to break
bread (into soup) with her colleague, who had been out of town for the past few weeks.
i'm thankful for their affection for each other and for the running joke she and i have
about using various complicated technologies (a gps device, a notice board, a modified
terror alert system, etc.) to track his whereabouts so she can locate him when she really
needs him and he's not there, which is often.
i'm thankful for the annoying plants in our front yard which i do not know the name of
but which are like larger and more fibrous sand spurs coated in sticky sap that bond
together in thick clumps and which i always get stuck to me while taking the trash out,
annoying me, but which, inevitably, i forget to avoid two weeks later when i next take out
the trash out. i'm thankful for the moment when i got to work after taking out the trash
this week and found a huge clump of them stuck to the leg of my black pants. i'm
thankful that without thinking, i tried to pull them off with my right hand, which was clad
in a cheap knit glove, and the fibers embedded themselves into it in many different
places. i'm thankful for how my stupid 8am brain then led me to try to pull out the fibers
from my gloved right hand with my gloved left hand, thus spreading them to my left hand
while not removing a significant amount from my right hand. i'm thankful that i left the
gloves on my desk for several days because the thought of removing all the tiny fibers
seemed too painstaking and i'm thankful that i considered just throwing them away, since
they only cost $6. i'm thankful i found a spare pair of cheap knit gloves from last winter in
my sock drawer to use while i procrastinated taking action on the bur-ridden pair. i'm
thankful for yesterday, when i paraphrased to myself my own lesson here about
subdividing tasks as way to make them possible and endurable and convinced myself that
it would not be that bad, that i just had to go one finger at a time. i'm thankful that it
really was not that bad, that i just had to go one finger at a time, and that i actually kind of
enjoyed the process, the same way i enjoy vacuuming thick carpet and seeing the floor
beneath me transformed by my labor. i'm thankful that because of the annoying plants in
our front yard, i now have two pairs of gloves for this winter.
i'm thankful that i spent a large portion of yesterday afternoon writing a battle rap
imagining different ways to kill ted cruz instead of doing actual work. i'm thankful for my
clumsy flow and my not letting the inevitable problems with trying to create political art
(not to mention rapping as a white person) stop me from enjoying flexing my brain. i'm
thankful for the most promising verse i came up with: "you think that's bad ted? now i'll
really make you squirm / i'ma take a little egg and fertilize it with my sperm / i inject that
shit inside, you feel it squirming like a worm / and you best fucking believe you're gonna
carry it to term / no exceptions - my weapon's your rejection of a preference / for a
mother to decide if she wants to ride or die / your body's mine now, you're my spouse, the
bible says / it's my house, and when contractions start, the baby's / gonna rip your balls
out. opinions are like assholes / especially from you, son, and if i hear another / i'll tear
you a new one..."
i'm thankful for duets between louis armstrong and ella fitzgerald, which always make me
feel like i'm in the happy coda of a nora ephron movie. i'm thankful for the christmas
playlist that an old friend of d's made and that we are listening to now in our bedroom as
the furnace pumps hot air up from the basement. i'm thankful for the flaming lips
"christmas laughing waltz (including jingle bells)," which matches beautiful meditative
close mic-ed jazz piano with a bed of delayed and distorted and reverbed wordless
vocalizations. i'm thankful for the latest issue of new york magazine, which is my favorite
magazine to read in bed on lazy weekend mornings. i'm thankful for warm matcha
frothed in a glass bottle. i'm thankful that our favorite restaurant in town reopened last
night and that we're going to eat there tonight. i'm thankful for all the possibilities which
exist in the outline of the weekend ahead of us and in the vast expanse of space-time that
will be our holiday vacation, which starts next wednesday.
i'm thankful for the singing bowl that d gave me as an early christmas present (i'm
thankful also that she likes the hanging air planters that i gave her as an early christmas
present). i'm happy that though i had trouble with it at first, i found lists of tips and a
helpful tutorial video on the internet. i'm happy for the moment last night when, after
seemingly forever fruitlessly rubbing the wooden wand around the outer rim, a piercing,
clear tone started to sustain in the bowl and, as i continued to summon it, to rise in pitch
and volume, seeming to float out of the bowl in front of me as a tangible object for several
moments before my arms gave up and it disappeared into the air. i'm thankful for the way
that the process felt like the sonic equivalent of starting a fire with sticks.
i'm thankful for "new world coming" by nina simone.
12/20/15
i'm thankful for that we went to the art museum on the last weekend before the fall
exhibition closes. i'm thankful for the exhibition, which introduced me to an incredible
painter i had never heard of before. i'm thankful to reject the prejudice i had when i was
younger about "local art," to realize that you don't have to live in paris or london or new
york to make meaningful or beautiful things. i'm thankful that marcel duchamp told the
painter to think of the canvas as a theatrical space and i'm thankful that the painter took
that to heart. i'm thankful for his large oils and for how they reward prolonged viewing
from different distances. i'm thankful for the layered chaos of his compositions, for the
way that planes of space skew and shift and intersect and dissolve into each other, and i'm
thankful for his facture, for the control (and (the simulation of?) the lack thereof) of the
various ways with which he puts paint and pastel on canvas. i'm thankful for the darkness
of his color palette, which makes his frequent use of oranges and reds all the more
radiant.
i'm thankful for the exhibition’s wall text, even though wall text seems always to be a
subject of criticism these days for over-explaining paintings. i'm thankful, as a writer, to
have allusions to history and myth and biography and critical discourse briefly unpacked
and to be able to assemble maps of concepts and language in my mind as my eyes travel
over the visual surface of the work, even if this isn't the "right way" to look at a painting.
i'm thankful for the interesting things i learned from the wall text. i'm thankful to have
learned about the concept of brevi, amulets of text worn around the neck in italy, and to
have fantasized about a life as a sorcerer of words (i'm thankful to think that perhaps i
can use this brevi thing as a twitter bot concept). i'm thankful, this close to christmas, to
learn that mistletoe was revered by the druids because it is evergreen and that it's a
parasite. i'm thankful to learn about the "odor of sanctity," which is an enchanting aroma
which is supposed to emanate from the remains of saints. i'm thankful for the wall text
that made a parenthetical joke with an internet-y exclamation point about how a mystical
celtic fish is "the ultimate brain food!" i'm thankful for the line from the wall text of the
painter's rendering of faust, which reads, "the noose on the gallows suggests a scrotum."
i'm thankful that the noose on the gallows does, in fact, suggest a scrotum, and i could
have seen that without the wall text, but i'm thankful that the wall text reinforced this
reading, and also made me quietly giggle.
i'm thankful for revolving doors. i'm thankful, even though it was cold, that we rode our
bikes to the art museum. i'm thankful i locked them both up with the same u lock, which
i've never done before. i'm thankful that we stopped at the bike shop on the way home
and i got new tires put on my bike (another christmas present from d). i'm thankful that,
though i was intimidated to enter the bike shop, since i don't know anything about bikes
and it feels kind of like the high fidelity problem and the last time we entered the bike
shop, after buying junker bikes at an auction on campus and wanting to get them fixed up
to make them rideable, the hipster bike shop guy told me that the bike i had gotten was so
crappy that it was not worth spending the money to fix it up to make it rideable. i'm
thankful that i had no reason to be intimidated and the bike shop guys were super nice.
i'm thankful for the new thin, light tires i got and for how excited i am to take a ride on
them. i'm thankful for the pony-tail weirdo who kept talking to one of the bike shop guys
at a pace which just listening to it made me feel manic and who would not stop using the
word "carabiner."
i'm thankful that when a mingus song came up on the spotify playlist, i introduced d to
the charles mingus cat toilet training program. (and i'm thankful to have been reminded
of how my grandparents tried (and failed) to teach their over-stuffed miniature dog to go
to the bathroom on a piece of astroturf in their kitchen (i'm thankful for the comfort that
the ridiculous dog gave my grandmother as she died of cancer)). i'm thankful to have
listened to ballads by grant green while we got dressed for dinner. i'm thankful for soft
organ beds and for gentle solos. i'm thankful that we got to the restaurant at 5:30 and it
didn't open until 6, so we went to a bar nearby for beers. i'm thankful for the beers we
ordered and for the moment when we asked our waitress for a recommendation
(something i rarely do) of something interesting and she suggested barleywine, which she
said would be "really weird." i'm thankful it was really weird, but in a tasty way. i'm
thankful that after we finished it and went over to the restaurant, they had just opened
and we were their second table ever. i'm thankful they seated us by the front window of
the restaurant and we could look out on the white christmas lights strung around the
town square. i'm thankful for our waitress, who was super friendly, especially given the
chaos of a restaurant opening, and who reminded me strongly of amy schumer. i'm
thankful for oysters and mingonette and lemon juice. i'm thankful for pickled onions. i'm
thankful for the ecstasy of yellowfin poke, even if ours was maybe slightly over-salted. i'm
thankful for an incredibly subtle wash of wasabi, and i'm thankful for microgreens. i'm
thankful that instead of an entree, we got two desserts. i'm thankful for thick, bitter
chocolate mousse with a sugar-lacquered sesame accessory cracker that reminded us of
korea. i'm thankful for bright, bracing grapefruit sorbet and for the fact that it had
whipped cream on it, which i've never had or thought to have with sorbet, but which was
actually good. i'm thankful for whipped cream, which is honestly probably good on
everything.
i'm thankful for our euphoric stumble home through the cold. i'm thankful how even
though we like to stay home almost all the time, it was nice, and i'm thankful for how
halfway through the evening, we kind of realized we were on a date. i'm thankful for the
fun "date conversations" we had, about our parents and books and things we could
remember from college. i'm thankful that the bill was lower than we had expected it to be.
i'm thankful, as we approached the house from the street, for the way the colored lights
on our christmas tree made a watercolor abstract expressionism of the blinds on our front
window. i'm thankful for how nice it was to enter a warm house after walking through the
cold. i'm thankful for the expanse, which we started watching after i saw a comparison on
slate to battlestar galactica, which was enough for me, and which is pretty great so far
(but, so far, seems more intimate than galactica, and reminds me more of seveneves). i'm
thankful for battlestar galactica and i'm thankful for seveneves and for everyone's
excitement about the new star wars, which i'm thankful has not been spoiled for me yet
and which we will probably see sometime this week. i'm thankful for the old vhs
camcorder that my dad had, which, as a child, i once used to watch the entirety of the
empire strikes back while lying on my stomach on the carpeted floor of a temporary
bedroom in a short-term rental, my face shoved up against the rubber eyepiece to be able
to see the low resolution viewfinder's image of a galaxy far, far away. i'm thankful for the
soft paper lights in the shape of stars we have hanging over the head of our bed and how
their gentle astronomy guides us toward sleep.
12/21/15
i'm thankful that there was a problem with cell signals traveling through the air when i
went running through the thick gray morning yesterday and so neither my podcasts nor
spotify were working and i had to listen to the only music i had on my phone, which was
1989. i'm thankful, despite quietly appreciating the undeniable "you belong with me"
when it came out, that i didn't really like taylor swift for a long time and in fact actively
disliked her for a while. i'm thankful that when 1989 first came out, i didn't really see the
appeal and gently mocked d for buying a CD from target rather than just torrenting it. i'm
thankful for the occasionally heated debates we had sitting on our apartment floor when i
felt the need to set up lana del rey and/or beyonce (who we both loved) in a binary with
tay-tay (who only she loved) as a way of enumerating their superiority to her, even
though that was stupid and unnecessary and she was right. i'm thankful that despite my
grumbling, d just kept playing the album because she loved it so much, in the apartment
and in the car and in hotel rooms and on her laptop, and i kept listening to it, less and less
grudgingly and then more and more enthusiastically. i'm thankful that over time, i was
able to get past my initial resistance to the production, to this modern pop tendency for
massed synths and harmonies and for everything to need to feel "epic," and against my
even stronger resistance to taylor's persona, the constructed good girl perfection of which
seemed antithetical to the kind of musical personas i generally prefer (which are usually
rooted in "coolness" and "danger" and some kernel of rockist authenticity, even if they are
playing with/stretching that concept, as, for ex., lana del rey does).
i'm thankful that even if i roll my eyes occasionally at taylor now, i do so with affection.
i'm thankful i now find reading her social media and watching her cat videos and reading
about her in profiles makes me happy, i'm thankful to check in with her, and i'm even
more thankful for how much i've come to appreciate the album. i'm thankful how i still
like hearing it in the car or in my headphones. i'm thankful that the song that i initially
found the most hunger games ridiculous, "i know places," is actually my favorite song to
run to now. i'm thankful for its ferocity and for the way that the ryan tedder superchoruses slam in, giving me bursts of speed. i'm thankful for the way the neurochemical
intensity of running can sync up with music to make me cry sometimes while running
even if i'm not (consciously) sad. i'm thankful for the thrumming catharsis of that.
i'm thankful that after d fell asleep trying to watch the second episode of the expanse with
me last night after dinner, we left outer space to watch the 1989 concert film. i'm thankful
for my/our disappointment in the aesthetic of the special, for the way that the
overcaffeinated editing and the weird figure skating costume mediocrity "let's put on a
show" theater geek sense of it made me appreciate both taylor's videos (especially the
"style" video, which i think is totally exquisite digital psych abercrombie porn) and
beyonce's completely flawless video album even more (so i guess i still haven't abandoned
that binary and i'm thankful that i can cling to its wreckage). i'm thankful that some of
the concert rearrangements of her songs were interesting ("trouble" with a devilish
drumless opening and an acid guitar solo at the end) and some were ill-advised, even if i
can see the logic behind them ("love story" recast as room temperature stadium synth pad
pop—never have i missed a fiddle more in my life, even if the exuberance of the key
change in the final chorus was still able to push up through the reverb). i'm thankful,
despite the lameness of some of the staging and despite how taylor's "intimate" stadium
chats with the audience represented the aspects of her persona that i like least, that the
songs are still great and i still enjoyed hearing them sung and i'm thankful that as i lost
interest and looked at things on my phone, that d still sang along and i could listen to her
voice layering with taylor’s and the stadium's. i'm thankful for d's singing voice, and i'm
thankful that she turned off the concert film early because she wanted to be able to better
focus on a challenge in zelda: a link between two worlds, which i gave her as an early
christmas present.
i'm thankful for zan romanoff's writing about taylor swift, which d sent me when she was
trying to convince me of how great she is. i'm thankful for the other great things i read
this weekend. i'm thankful for this essay by jaime lowe about lithium. i'm thankful for
this essay by siri hustvedt about literary misogyny and knaussgard. i'm thankful for this
essay by erin chack about love. i'm thankful that i'm still enjoying the thousand autumns
of jacob de zoet. i'm thankful for the rest of that new york magazine was great, even if i'd
read a lot of it online already. i'm thankful that after i confessed to her that, intending to
just have a few pieces of the tub she gave me last week, i had ended up almost eating the
whole thing, d surprised me with another giant tub of caramel corn which she had held in
reserve. i'm thankful that i will have lots of time to exercise during vacation. i'm thankful
for the old pair of laundry day underwear that had a large hole in the crotch, which i
hulkishly ripped off my body to entertain d. i'm thankful that though d and i both passed
through clouds of irritability yesterday, we came together to make this delicious lasagna.
i'm thankful to look forward to dinner tonight, when we can have more of it. i'm thankful
for leftovers.
12/22/15
i'm thankful for how a few months of commuting on my bike has given me access to a
whole world of driving feelings that i never experienced in thirty years as a passenger. i'm
thankful to now understand how necessary road rage can sometimes feel, after years of
not being able to figure out why my dad couldn't get over asshole drivers and of worrying
that the bulging vein in his temple meant he was going to have a heart attack or stroke
(i'm thankful that he is more mellow about it now). i'm thankful to finally know what the
danger of moving through freshly slick streets feels like viscerally. i'm thankful, as a
passenger whose m.o. in a car is always "oh well, it's okay that we missed that light—we'll
just wait for the next one," to crank my quads so i can blast through the end of a yellow
on my way home and get there thirty seconds sooner. i'm thankful for the way my body
knows the rhythms of the traffic lights downtown, thankful to be able to feel, without
counting, how much time i have get from one green light to the next to the next before
the sequence starts to change.
i'm thankful for the opportunity to take pictures of graduating students with their
advisors and mentors. i'm thankful to get to say silly things to make them smile more
genuinely. i'm thankful that the exuberance of their relief at finishing papers and projects
gives me an echo of the feelings of freedom i used to experience when i was a student in
similar circumstances. i'm thankful that both my bosses loved their christmas gifts and
expressed particularly the feeling of being known based on what i'd chosen for them (a
mug that says "i'd rather be boating" for one, a bottle of sweet wine and a handful of
scratch-off lottery tickets for the other). i'm thankful that the gym by the office is open
this holiday season, since it was closed last year and that was annoying. i'm thankful that
rather than letting the stray basketball headed toward me at the track pass by yesterday
while i was running, i tried to kick it back to its owner on the court, even though i didn't
do a good job and looked stupid (i’m thankful that i made the effort anyway). i'm thankful
for the old towels being rotated in at the gym this week, which are light brown and smell
weirdly like cucumber (whereas the usual towels, which are green, the color of cucumber,
do not smell like cucumber). i'm thankful for my work friend t, who just gave me a
printed photo of two knit cat butts (with tiny pink knit buttholes) that says "merry
christmas" with a candy cane taped to the top. i'm thankful that a faculty member's son is
coming to the office this afternoon and i'll give him small jobs to make him feel
important and then play frisbee with him in the empty gym. i'm thankful i had the
foresight to buy him a little christmas present in case i saw him over the holidays and i'm
thankful that d wrapped it nicely in shiny blue paper.
i'm thankful for sun salutations, which i must always remember are essential. i'm
thankful that i slept on them for the past few weeks in favor of more headstands and
warrior and seated forward bends during my daily practice and started gradually feeling
like things were getting stale. i'm thankful that yesterday evening, i did them for a half
hour straight and felt incredible afterwards, like my body was new to me again rather
than the shell of matter it felt like it was becoming. i'm thankful for the opportunity to do
more yoga on vacation and to learn new asanas to add to my repertoire.
i'm thankful for keeping up with the kardashians. i'm thankful that the cold open of this
week's episode was an extended scene at a natural foods grocery store of kim asking
mason's opinion about the smells of various natural deodorants because her normal
deodorant was not holding up to the stresses that pregnancy had exerted on her body. i'm
thankful for the beautiful images of st. bart's, which reminded me of the tropical fantasia
in just cause 3, which i played for about two hours on sunday after renting it from redbox.
i'm thankful for kris's exasperated line to kim that "i would never speak to anybody the
way you speak to me" and i'm thankful for kim's devilish child eyes and ridiculous need to
impose her will on everyone. i'm thankful for the family's fears about kourtney being
obsessed with intricate instagram stalking and to think that people who are famous still
are just as crazy as everyone else in terms of checking who liked a particular photo and
who's mentioned where (i'm thankful to think about miranda july asking rihanna what
apps she had on her phone in that one interview (i'm thankful for this essay, which
reminded me of that)). i'm thankful for tyga, whose music i have never listened to but
who seemed like quite a pleasant and agreeable person to go on vacation with. i'm
thankful for how he squirmed uncomfortably on the paddle board in deep clear water,
white knuckle gripping the edges
i'm thankful that today's lenny letter has a new short story from emma jane unsworth,
and i'm thankful that though normally i don't like or read short stories (which graduate
school ruined for me), i did read this one and did like it. i'm thankful for her novel
animals, which d read while we were on the beach in miami last year and kept laughing
and having to read funny bits to me aloud. i'm thankful for the novel, which i read myself
later and which is great. i'm thankful for this song, which i came across on soundcloud
yesterday while walking home in gray spitting rain. i'm thankful for the synth acoustic
guitar plucks and the sampled vocals and the distorted synth and i'm thankful for the way
those elements and more are combined by the ADD headphone aesthetic of the producer,
for the way new sounds appear in basically every bar but the whole thing still feels
minimalist for the most part thanks to constant subtraction accompanying the addition,
as well as judicious EQ. i'm thankful to have learned from the new york times daily
briefing that the annual christmas lottery is so important in spain that it continued during
the spanish civil war, only with two separate drawings, one for republicans and one for
fascists.
12/23/15
i'm thankful that it's the first day of vacation. i'm thankful that though we had planned to
walk across town to see the new star wars this morning, it's going to rain so we decided to
go tomorrow, when it is supposed to be warm and cloudless. i'm thankful we slept in and
i'm thankful for the absence of alarms. i'm thankful for a lazy morning in bed. i'm
thankful for the compilation of the "best (and weirdest)" japanese commercials of 2015
that we watched. i'm thankful for the anecdote d told me after, which was how KFC really
took control of how christmas was marketed in japan when the holiday was starting to
become popular and now many people eat KFC on fried chicken or, even if they don't,
associate the holiday with the brand. i'm thankful for her telling me about how her friend
who lives in japan doesn't like fried chicken and how wrong we both found this. i'm
thankful that writing this will drop a thought anchor in my subconscious about fried
chicken and we will probably eat it sometime this vacation.
i'm thankful for the fun i had working and playing with the faculty member's son
yesterday. i'm thankful for his help emptying out, crushing, and recycling old soda bottles
(i'm thankful i saved this task for him and i'm thankful for the great sound the bottles
made as we crushed them with our feet). i'm thankful for our science experiment grossout at a floating culture blob that plopped out of an old jug of sweet tea into the sink in
the men's bathroom (baby kombucha?). i'm thankful that he helped me take down our
office christmas decorations (i'm thankful for this gift that we gave to my future self
when i return from vacation) and i'm thankful for his glee at using the industrial paper
shredder (under careful supervision) to destroy old tests and papers. i'm thankful that
after our work was done, we went and played frisbee in a cavernous empty gym. i'm
thankful for his joy at making trick shots by bouncing the frisbee off the ground with a
sharply angled shot and for the cool throws he made that caused the frisbee to ride along
the wall and then drop down for me to catch. i'm thankful my work friend t snuck out of
her office to come throw with us for a while. i'm thankful that, seeing me in workout
clothes for the first time, she said "damn, justin, you have amazing legs." i'm thankful for
the rhythm and variations introduced when you have three people playing frisbee rather
than two. i'm thankful for our camaraderie and fun and the way that we all faux-formally
shook hands and told each other good game after we finished. i'm thankful the faculty
member’s son was surprised by the tiny secret christmas present i bought him, which is a
tiny plastic frisbee you flick with your fingers.
i'm thankful, despite my anxiety about videophones, that we had a wonderful skype with
our friend jk in seoul. i'm thankful that in a lot of ways, it was just like the old days. i'm
thankful for this passage from infinite jest about videophones and anxiety that i sent jk
and d out of nervousness in the morning before the call. i'm thankful for her toddler
daughter, who was wearing confetti patterned leggings and who connected through the
screen and across the globe with d's puppycat plush, babbled adorably, spun an office
chair, turned the laptop to find a new composition, and then ended the call after an hour
or so by closing the computer and shutting it down. i'm thankful for how much skype has
improved since i last used it, when i was the one living in korea; i'm thankful that the lag
was almost imperceptible. i'm thankful to get to catch up with jk, who we miss very much,
to be able to exchange gossip and talk about tv shows and art and books.
i'm thankful for the grief bacon tinyletter, which i came to through tinyletter forwards
and which has been great so far and had an especially great letter yesterday about what it
feels like to be in new york during the holidays. i'm thankful to remember d and i's first
trip to new york one christmas a few years ago, our first trip together as a couple, which i
didn't want to go on because of (partly) a fear of spending money and (mostly) a fear of
the unknown. i'm thankful for the revelation that was taking a slow cab down from
laguardia through harlem and the upper east side to our tiny boutique hotel room south
of the park, for the fact that all i could dumbstruck say was that it reminded me of GTA
IV. i'm thankful for the dark polished surfaces of the hotel, for the expensive textures, and
for the colors and shapes we could see out our window, especially at sunrise, which a view
reminds me in retrospect of an ashcan school landscape, even though i hadn't studied the
ashcan school at that point (on our second trip to new york, we would see a george
bellows show at the met after i had studied him and his depictions of a snowy city in
warm light would give me a powerful sense of deja vu). i'm thankful to remember walking
through little italy on our first night after a dinner of sichuan frog legs in chinatown and
feeling completely overwhelmed by the crowded sidewalks and a guy with a family who
was headed in the opposite direction, catching my glance and telling me in a stereotypical
tv new jersey voice, "hey buddy, it's christmas, how about a smile?" and this command
crushing my spirits even further so that my face crumpled and i almost cried and he
looked embarrassed he'd said anything. i'm thankful for our subway mishaps and
triumphs and long walks down the avenues. i'm thankful to remember my first trip to
moma and the guggenheim and my first time eating dim sum, which changed my culinary
life and in itself would have made the trip worthwhile. i'm thankful for my favorite art
exhibition i have maybe ever seen (though the traveling magritte show at the chicago
institute of art last year is close competition), which was this incredible retrospective at
ps1 of an artist i had never heard of, thomas lanigan-schmidt. i'm thankful for the agony
and ecstasy of his work, for all the ways he used text in images, which inspired me to fill
pages of a notebook with ideas that i never followed through on, and for his embrace of
foil and glitter and magic markers and saran wrap and the way he elevated those
materials until they became holy, sanctified. i'm thankful for how hot we were walking
through the museum in our coats because we were afraid to check them, and how that
warmth lent a certain intensity to the experience. i'm thankful for the james turrell room
that's open to the sky, which was so refreshing with its blast of cold air and natural light.
i'm thankful that coming across it on the top floor of the museum at the end of an
anonymous hallway felt like coming across a secret and that when we entered, there was
no one else around for a long while, so it was like the sky belonged to us. i'm thankful
how, so we could rest our feet after the workout of traversing the galleries before we
headed back to manhattan, we stepped into the theater downstairs and, watched a half
hour or so of pasolini's salo, which was just as insane as i'd always heard it was. i'm
thankful for getting quite drunk in our hotel room before and after dinners and taking
pages of fuzzy selfies. i'm thankful for channel surfing late one evening while exhausted
in bed and coming across dune. i'm thankful for the furry hat with ear flaps that i got at
the giant forever 21 in times square and continue to wear in the winter to this day, though
the faux fur is now quite matted. i'm thankful for how momofuku was less than we'd
expected and times square was more than we'd expected. i'm thankful for our time sitting
on a bench in central park on an unseasonably warm morning waiting for the museum of
natural history to open. i'm thankful for how sad i felt when the trip was over and the cab
driver was dropping me off at my terminal at laguardia so i could fly to miami before
taking d to a different terminal so she could fly to san diego. i'm thankful for the intensity
of how much i missed her while sitting there in my terminal waiting for my flight, how
deeply her absence strained my heart.
i'm thankful that though that trip was in many ways as stressful as it was wonderful, it
made the next trip (when we stayed at a weird hasid hotel in williamsburg) less stressful
and more wonderful, and i'm thankful, though i'm so happy we're staying home together
this winter, to get to fantasize about all the trips we will take someday. i'm thankful for
how the space that vacation creates is not just about the freedom you're experiencing in
the present, but about the way it allows your mind to envision, in optimistic soft focus,
what the future might be like.
12/24/15
i'm thankful for the beginner's guide, a video game i played yesterday afternoon which
was one of the most moving artistic experiences i've had in a long time. i'm thankful for
the singularity and power of its architecture, both conceptually (the ideas, the sentences,
the narrative) and physically (the ominous towers, the deconstructed prisons, the winding
paths). i'm thankful for the echoes the game sounded of alan resnais and de chirico and
jenny holzer and john baldessari and carl andre and james turrell. i'm thankful for the
creator's voice-over narration, for his exploration of what it is to create things and why
people create them and what the things can mean or say about their creators. i'm
thankful, as i consider what it feels like to have people read my daily thoughts, for the
questions he asks about audiences and motivation and interpretation. i'm thankful for the
darkness of the game, for its avoidance of easy answers to any of these questions, for the
way that the two kinds of architecture i described before (and the two kinds of darkness
shrouding that architecture) are united in service of movement and meditation. i'm
thankful for the way that the stark minimalism of the design shows how simple
interactions (a switch that opens a door) and symbols (a lamppost, a set of dots on a wall,
a maze) can be made powerful through iteration and repetition, through small but
significant variations. i'm thankful that humans evolved to recognize patterns and ascribe
meaning to them, even if this blessing is also, as the game shows, a curse.
i'm thankful for how hard it rained yesterday, for the fury of the thunder and lightning as
it struck all around the house. i'm thankful that though there was a tornado warning,
there weren't any tornados. i'm thankful that though d's umbrella broke yesterday
morning, it broke at the very end of our errands, between the car and the back door, so
she didn't get soaked. i'm thankful to get to be inside a warm house all day while it rains
hard and dark outside, which always reminds me of happy times when i was a child.
i'm thankful for the bittersweetness of the modern tension that i'm often struck by after
being deeply moved by an artistic experience, which is an inability to decide whether it's
more satisfying to try to keep the experience of the thing resonating quietly inside of me
by being still and leaving it alone and not complicating it with further thought or, on the
other hand, whether to unlock my device and go off in search of more (images,
interviews, descriptions, depictions, digressions, anything) that i can pull in out of the
web to expand the experience and make it continue in that way, paths branching off into
an endless horizon of results. i'm thankful to think of how, when struck by this feeling
when i was a young child, i had no device for unlocking experiences in this way (save for
some small objects made out of plastic and the occasional paperback movie novelization)
and so was forced to use my imagination to sustain the tidal feelings of art washing over
the inside of my body (i'm thankful, though, not to let nostalgia color this too warmly,
and to remember the times when i felt a deep lack of more). i'm thankful to remember
when i was in college and went to the movies on campus a lot with my friends and how,
after a good movie, i would feel unable to talk about it, would just walk home a few steps
behind the others in the peace of darkness until i felt that i had digested the experience
(like you would digest a meal) and was ready to come back to the world. i'm thankful that,
though my inclination these days, like a lot of people, is usually to unlock and search and
stream about the thing that moved me, that sometimes that impulse, contrary to what
cultural critics crow about in op-eds, is rewarding and sometimes even magical, can
unlock new rooms which i can enter and consider the thing from different perspectives,
can reactivate the magic of the thing by way of interfaces that were hidden from me as i
experienced it the first time. i'm thankful, even, for the times that this impulse to connect
the dots backfires on me, as it often does, because, for example, i read a commentary that
seems to misunderstand what the thing meant to me, or to critique exactly what it was
that i found moving, or to pervert something my subconscious found beautiful by using
words to make that beauty too explicit to me (the colors that were pure in shadow
becoming garish in the light), that those experiences of diminishment are powerful and
valid, too, and maybe even sometimes necessary (though i'm also thankful that the next
time i experience a moving thing, i sometimes faintly remember a bad experience like this
and use it as an omen to stay away from searching). i'm thankful, again, for the singing
bowl that d gave me for christmas, which seems like a useful tangible metaphor for trying
to sustain a powerful inner feeling.
i'm thankful that the company i freelanced for a month or so ago asked me yesterday
whether i'd like to write another post for them. i'm thankful, even though my first
inclination was to say no (is always to say no) and even though i had been fantasizing
since thanksgiving of letting my vacation be a place where work doesn't exist, i said yes,
that i would send over some pitches soon. i'm thankful to build out my resume with
experiences which will hopefully make me more employable in the future. i'm thankful
that after dinner last night, i got out my computer and started thinking in an email draft
and i'm thankful that an hour later, i had three pitches that i was happy with and i clicked
send. i'm thankful that it didn't feel that hard (i'm thankful to knock on wood after
writing that) and i'm thankful that maybe writing these notes is helping and will help me
write other things. i'm thankful that over night (because he lives in thailand), the editor
accepted one of my pitches and i'm thankful that i feel like the post will be both fun to
write and useful for people to read.
i'm thankful for the phone game ridiculous fishing, which is not profound like the
beginner's guide but which is, in terms of core loops, profoundly satisfying (i'm thankful
for the linked essay, from one of my favorite internet writers, which is an example of a
result that can expand your experience of a thing). i'm thankful i downloaded it on a
whim yesterday evening after dinner, while d navigated a zelda dungeon in the living
room. i'm thankful that though i intended to only check it out for a few minutes before
doing some yoga, i ended up playing for almost an hour. i'm thankful for the fun
mechanics, for the excellent use of the accelerometer, for the gleeful chiptune sonatas.
i'm thankful that eventually i was able to pull myself away and do a set of sun salutations.
i'm thankful that it's not going to rain today and that we're going to go on a long walk
across town. i'm thankful that we haven't decided what to make for dinner tonight. i'm
thankful that tomorrow is christmas.
12/25/15
i'm thankful that we were late to the new star wars. i'm thankful that when we entered
the theater, sure that the pre-show trailers would still be playing, instead, we were met by
the the thundering brass fanfare of the overture and the crawl of yellow text scrolling
away across an endless starfield. i'm thankful, when we entered our theater and realized
the movie had already started, for how primally dark it was, for how when i took a step
away from d to try to find a row with empty seats, she was completely lost in the vast
black and i had to reach out blindly to find her warm arm again.
i'm thankful for these things because the origin story, as it were, of my parents'
relationship (and, therefore, my origin story, in a way), involves my parents in high
school going, on their first date, to see the empire strikes back just after it was released.
i'm thankful for the story, oft-repeated in family lore, of how my dad was stressed out and
annoyed through the beginning of the date because they were running late and by the
time they entered the theatre, the movie had already started, laser beams zipping over the
icy expanse of hoth, walkers in the distance. i'm thankful for the punchline of the story,
which is that my mom felt bad about making them late to the movie until it became clear,
as they talked afterward, that my dad had already seen the movie and that this was his
second viewing. i'm thankful for my dad's ridiculousness (which, as i get older, becomes
clearer and clearer is also my ridiculousness, a genetic inheritance) and my mom's love
for that ridiculousness most of the time and for her saintly ability to tolerate it even when
she doesn't love it. i'm thankful that their first date wasn't their last date.
i'm thankful, as d and i walked across town yesterday morning to the crappy movie
theater by the old mall (it takes about an hour and fifteen minutes) to see the new star
wars, i reminded her of this story in a joking way. i'm thankful for the moment later in
the trip, when we were hustling along a suburban street so as to hopefully not miss many
of the trailers, how impressed i was at the speed of her power walking. i'm thankful that
unlike my dad, who was late to a movie he thought was important decades before the
invention of prozac, i didn't really care that we were late to the movie, even though i was
excited about seeing it and even though i don't normally like being late for things. i'm
thankful that when we arrived, though it seemed like our eyes would never adjust well
enough to the darkness for us to be able to find seats, eventually they did and we did. i'm
thankful that as i groped along a row near the center of the seating, still heavily visually
impaired, i didn't accidentally run into anyone because the row i had picked turned out to
be empty (i'm thankful i didn't follow my first instinct and try going one row back, where
there turned out to be a large group of people). i'm thankful that though d didn't follow
me down the row as i thought she did and that she felt briefly alone and scared standing
in the aisle, she was soon able to see me motioning to her and make her way to the seat
beside me. i'm thankful that d and i are both short and quiet, so hopefully we didn't ruin
the first shot of the new star wars for anyone by trying to get to our seats for the journey
across the galaxy.
i'm thankful that the new star wars was so great. i'm thankful that for d, who doesn't
think she's seen any of the original trilogy, though she has hazy memories of yoda
training luke on dagobah, the new star wars was so great. i'm thankful that for me, who
watched the original trilogy millions of times as a child, the new star wars was so great.
i'm thankful for the beautiful grinning energy of john boyega, especially, but also for the
smiles and grunts and grimaces, the leaps and feints, of daisy ridley and oscar isaac and
even adam driver, whose performance was so good and interesting that it almost just
made me forget his character from girls while watching him (though that required
cognitive strain and i think it would be better if he just wore the mask almost all the
time). i'm thankful for the sweetness and the humor, which are self-reflexive and winking
and joyful without ever descending into the meaninglessly whedonesque. i'm thankful for
the genius with which the movie recapitulates scenes and images and ideas and narrative
threads from the original without feeling like it's rehashing them, how it absorbs the
essence and projects it into the body of the present. i'm thankful for the magic trick light
touch of the illusions and the allusions.
i'm thankful for the weird experience i had in the bathroom halfway through the movie
when i left to pee. i'm thankful that, for some reason, this movie theater's men's
bathroom doesn't have any mirrors, so that as you wash your hands, you aren't able to see
your own image. i'm thankful to fantasize that this is not because the mirrors broke or for
any kind of banal practical reason, but for art's sake, to allow you to stay locked in the
world of the film you're watching rather than confronting your self, the afterimages
projecting from your eyes onto the screen of the blank concrete wall. i'm thankful, after
listening to the adorable puppyish burbles and bleeps of bb8, watching him roll across the
dunes of jakku, for the moment when i stuck my hands under the motion-sensor paper
towel dispenser. i'm thankful for the slight delay as the black box's sensors recognized my
presence and then the almost animal mechanical whine of it unspooling a segment of
brown paper for me to take. i'm thankful how for a moment, rather than being a banal
convenience, another meaningless product, the machine made me feel like i was living in
the future.
12/26/15
i'm thankful for video calls. i'm thankful that even though this is the first christmas that
neither d or i went home, we were able to feel like we were present with our families and
they were able to feel like we were present with them through the high definition moving
images streamed through the air across the country and onto our screens. i'm thankful for
the way that working to fit ourselves into the frame made us, in some ways, more present,
than we would have been otherwise. i'm thankful, at the same time, that we were able to
stay home together alone, that our first christmas since we got married could be ours to
share.
i'm thankful for d's dad's excitement about the case of beer and champagne and wine that
we got him, which earned a joke from d's mom about him showing up to give his sermon
drunk. i'm thankful for my dad's excitement about the surprise gift of the toy bb8 robot
he received, which he was not expecting at all and which made his face look briefly like a
little boy's (i'm thankful that my mom, who usually has trouble buying my dad "stupid"
things, felt freed to do so and had the idea). i'm thankful for d's mom's excitement about
her new michael kors bag which she had been wanting for a long time and which she
leapt from the couch to model for us in a rapid fire variety of positions. i'm thankful for
my mom's excitement about the food lab cookbook i bought her, and thankful for her
texts throughout the day about interesting things she'd learned from it. i'm thankful for
my brother's excitement about fire emblem awakening, which d got him because she
loved it so much and thought he would too. i'm thankful for d's sister's excitement at the
makeup set d got her and i'm thankful that, as promised, she wore her kigurumi which
was beyond cute and had fur claws. i'm thankful that d got a kigurumi of her own for
christmas as a surprise gift and that she put it on immediately to show off and also looks
adorable in it. i'm thankful that i got a new set of nonstick skillets for the kitchen so we
can stop possibly ingesting toxic chemicals when i use them. i'm thankful for the annual
ritual of watching my dog crawl into her enormous stocking to retrieve her gifts—i'm
thankful for how much she liked the stuffed possum she was given.
i'm thankful that d and i both have families (and now both have each others' families)
that love us so much and i'm thankful that we were able to connect with them on an
important day. i'm thankful, even though i'm a person that thrives on routine, for the way
that holidays can sometimes disrupt routines for the better. i'm thankful for blessings on
blessings on blessings.
i'm thankful that after the bustle of unwrapping, we cleaned the house so that it would be
nice for us for the rest of our vacation (or at least for a little while). i'm thankful that
though for some reason, it did not feel good to be in my body/mind yesterday afternoon
(possibly because i took my prozac late because i was on the video phone calls, possibly
the exertion of emotional effort to be present through the screen, possibly not having
time to do yoga or meditate, possibly some subconscious feelings of guilt at being away,
possibly any number of other things created by the mysteries of the processes of the body
that are totally outside of my control), i forced myself to go running and it was a beautiful
warm sunny day. i'm thankful for the 'do not enter' sign i passed whose paint was almost
entirely faded, erasing its warning. i'm thankful that i encountered the large tree which
had fallen across the path while running instead of while biking—i'm thankful for the joy
of jumping over it and barely breaking my stride as i continued up a shady hill. i'm
thankful that by the time i got home, i was feeling better. i'm thankful that i discovered
the power of exercise to help me feel better at a relatively young age. i'm thankful that d
texted me while i was gone to check on me and that i responded immediately that i was
fine and would be home in five minutes.
i'm thankful that we had leftover shrimp scampi with linguini to eat for dinner and i'm
thankful that i decided not to bother with a salad, which would just be a distraction from
the pasta. i'm thankful that after dinner, while d played zelda, i started watching
nymphomaniac: volume 1, which i've had saved in my netflix queue for a long time but
couldn't make myself watch. i'm thankful for lars von trier's masterly command of the
brechtian alienation effect and i'm thankful, at the same time, for the beauty of the
photography. i'm thankful for the artificially-imposed literary device used to structure the
narratives, for the weird role played by stellan skarsgard as a delivery mechanism for facts
about fly fishing and polyphony. i'm thankful for the quality of the performances, even
from actors like christian slater and shia le boeuf, who initially felt like stunt casting but
who really delivered. i'm thankful for the sadness of the movie, especially in the scene
with uma thurman (which is also very funny) and the scene where christian slater dies of
delirium tremens (which is not funny). i'm thankful that d eventually got so intrigued by
the movie that she put away her game and we turned off the lights and embraced while
watching the end. i'm thankful that as we sat there, i thought of the ending of
melancholia, when the family huddles together under the makeshift structure made of
sticks, united as the world ends around them.
12/27/15
i'm thankful for my first massage. i'm thankful that when i gave d a gift certificate for a
local spa for christmas, she insisted that instead of getting a fancy facial or long massage,
as i intended, that we split it and each have a short massage. i'm thankful that she said it
was more important to her that we get to share the experience. i'm thankful that though i
worried that we were going to be late for our appointment, we were right on time. i'm
thankful for the weird dimly lit purgatorial "tranquility room" we waited in while we filled
out forms and drew on outlines of the human body where we wanted to be massaged the
most. i'm thankful that my masseuse, l, was a nice older woman who reminded me of one
of my grandmother's friends when i was growing up. i'm thankful that, learning that i had
never had a massage, l very clearly explained the process. i'm thankful that once i had
stripped down and laid under the blanket and put my face into the padded receptacle, i
didn't have to open my eyes or say anything else for the next half hour.
i'm thankful for the strangeness of the bodily intimacy of getting a massage. i'm thankful
that the only reference point for being touched in that way is sex, or the occasional
massages that d and i will give each other, but that this is different, because when i'm
giving d a massage, even if i'm concentrating very diligently on making her feel good (or,
if she's unwell, feel better), my own arousal, because of my love for her and for her body,
is always an undercurrent to the process (and an undercurrent that sometimes becomes a
current and then a wave). i'm thankful for how, at the spa, having l's hands laid on me
didn't feel sexual (though i did get a semi as she worked her elbow into the sides of my
hips) or medical (my only other context for being touched without clothes, since i've
never really done sports) but weirdly spiritual, in a way. i'm thankful to think
sacrilegiously of mm washing j's feet and to wonder whether she gave him a massage
while rubbing them. i'm thankful for the strangeness of l using not just her hands, but her
forearms and elbows, for how i didn't expect that her forearms would be her primary tool
(i'm thankful for d's comparison, after the fact, of her masseuse's similar moves to a
"human rolling pin"). i'm thankful for maybe my favorite move l did, which was to drive
her elbow up along my back and through the knots in my shoulder, culminating in
lodging it for a second in the bowl between my shoulder and kneck and creating an
uncanny feeling, like when someone "cracks an egg" over your head. i'm thankful for the
dark soft room and the weird harold budd in middle earth soundtrack.
i'm thankful that my forecast app told me it wasn't raining and wouldn't rain and then
when i went outside to go running, it rained the whole time. i'm thankful that the rain
wasn't heavy but was ever present. i'm thankful i wore a waterproof jacket even though it
wasn't supposed to rain. i'm thankful, as i ran through the rain, for the opportunity the
weather app's inadequacy gave me to think about why it might have failed (is the amount
of precipitation that triggers the "light rain" label an amount greater than 0? what is the
rain that is not "rain"?). i'm thankful for the tiny rainbow glitter that's formed by pixels of
mist on my phone screen. i'm thankful that even though i ran through a puddle, it was on
the back end of my run and i have more than one pair of shoes and i can leave the others
out to dry. i'm thankful that i ran by the town donut store which is at the base of the
graveyard and that it made me fantasize about getting donuts sometime during vacation.
i'm thankful that their jelly and cream filled donuts are well and truly filled, are so filled
that i often feel sick afterward (but it's worth it). i'm thankful to think that if ghosts have
to haunt the graveyard after death, they at least get to smell the warm yeasty exhaust of
the donut store every day. i'm thankful that the families of people visiting the graves of
loved ones at the cemetery also get to smell the donut smell and maybe afterward visit
the donut store to celebrate the sweetness of life, the children in their church clothes with
red jelly smeared across their faces, their hands sticky.
i'm thankful for the canned smoked oysters that my parents sent me for christmas. i'm
thankful that i had them with slices of sharp cheddar and one of d's mozzarella sticks and
ritz crackers and a perfect pear for lunch. i'm thankful that though i don't really like baked
potatoes that much and so don't cook them very often, d was really in the mood for one
and so i baked her a potato to have with our pork chops and roasted broccoli last night.
i'm thankful that i forgot to make the grated cauliflower that i was going to have instead
of a baked potato and so d graciously agreed to split her potato with me, the same way she
shared the massage. i'm thankful for the fun of piercing the uncooked potato repeatedly
with a fork, which was a job my mom gave me in the kitchen when i was a kid. i'm
thankful for the tip i read on serious eats about rubbing the outside of the potato with
olive oil, which helps the skin crisp. i'm thankful i cooked the potato perfectly, since in
the past i've often underdone the inside, which is unpleasant. i'm thankful for the
experience of splitting the hot potato and pressing pats of butter into it, for the
unctuousness of the butter as it melted and spread through the fractured chunks of
starch. i'm thankful for the little bag of maldon salt that my parents sent me for
christmas, which i sprinkled flakes of on top of the crispy brown skin and into the melty
center of the potatoes.
i'm thankful to be an adult and get to choose what i eat every day. i'm thankful to
remember how my parents, meaning well, tried to force me to eat foods i didn't like when
i was a kid, and how they often tried to force me to eat mashed potatoes, which were the
food i then (and now, to a slightly lesser extent) find the most disgusting. i'm thankful
that my parents did not force me to eat mashed potatoes and foods i didn't like out of a
reflexive parental authoritarianism but, i think, to encourage me to appreciate the food
that we could afford and to respect the labor my mother had put into the meal and i think,
more than anything in the specific case of mashed potatoes, out of incredulity that
anyone could dislike something as wonderful as mashed potatoes, which everyone in both
my immediate and extended southern family loved like babies love mother's milk.
i'm thankful for the sunday lunch at my grandparent's house, much retold in family lore,
when my parents were trying to force me to eat mashed potatoes. i'm thankful that i had a
bad gag reflex as a kid, especially when confronted with foods i didn't like, so that as i
tried to force the mashed potatoes down my throat, i started to gag and choke, the
strangling sounds marring the quiet clatter of forks against plates and chewing and
conversation. i'm thankful that after i tried another bite, gagging more, that my paternal
grandfather, an incredibly kind and soft-spoken man who loved his grandchildren and
golf and feeding birds, said, firmly and loudly and definitively, "this is enough. if he does
not want the mashed potatoes, he does not have to eat them."
i'm thankful that this meal, more than 20 years ago now, was the last time i have had
more than a spoonful of mashed potatoes (i'm thankful that i have tried fancy haute
thomas keller mashed potatoes as an adult, just in case you were wondering, in the hopes
that they would make me like them and i could share that with my family, which i would
love to do, but unfortunately, though i find them slightly less disgusting than my family's
mashed potatoes, i still find them disgusting). i'm thankful that if i don't want to, i may
never have to eat mashed potatoes again (though i would do so to be polite if offered
them at a dinner party, since as an adult my gag reflex is weaker and my willpower is
stronger). i'm thankful for my grandfather, who i loved and who loved me and who i hope,
if there is an afterlife, is resting in peace in a place filled with nice smells.
12/28/15
i'm thankful for the nightmare in which my mother revealed to me, in a darkened upstairs
bedroom, that i had had cancer for nine months and that she couldn't bear to tell me until
now. i'm thankful that in my nightmare, the cancer was, i think, drawn from my memory
of how radiation sickness works in outer space in seveneves, of this image of invisible
particles passing through the air and into the body and lodging there to destroy cells. i'm
struck by the weird sense of emotional scale in dreams, how this horror and despair
seemed equivalent to the moment, earlier in the nightmare, when i "realized" that my
christmas vacation was over and i had to get to work quickly. i'm thankful for the one
happy moment in the nightmare, when i was able to give a bunch of unripe bananas to a
faculty member i work with so that her son (the one who, in real life, i gave the miniature
frisbee) would have something to take to school for a class project. i'm thankful that i
briefly felt guilty for giving away our bananas without asking d, but then i talked to d and
she said it was a nice thing to do. i'm thankful i woke up and that i do not have cancer and
my vacation is not close to over (though we don't have any bananas, except for one very
soft very brown one, because i forgot to buy them at the grocery store on saturday, and
looking back this may have been the seed that generated the dream).
i'm thankful that though i generally hate running on a treadmill, it was raining all day
yesterday and so i was forced to try again to run on a treadmill. i'm thankful that i used an
old issue of the new yorker to cover the treadmill's display. i'm thankful that i did this
because, when the display is visible, i find that i constantly check the time and the
imaginary distance that i have traveled and the (very) imaginary calories that i have
burned and doing so causes time to feel as if it's moving incredibly slowly and i am unable
to cover distances that, when running outside, seem like child's play. i'm thankful that
covering up the readout and watching something on my phone let the time fly by. i'm
thankful i watched the first forty minutes of best of enemies, the documentary about the
buckley/vidal debates, on netflix. i'm thankful for the snappiness of the editing and of the
repartee. i'm thankful for gore vidal's sick burns. i'm thankful for how soaked my black tshirt was with sweat when i was done.
i'm thankful that mark hamill looks just like zizek. i'm thankful to imagine the amazing
sci-fi film essay that might eventually result from this coincidence. i'm thankful for
sophie fiennes, whose labor in making those great zizek films tends to be hidden by the
volume of zizek's voice and beard.
i'm thankful that some mysterious thing happened and the seat belt in the passenger side
of d's car has shifted such that the buckle, which for a long time was loose and would,
when the belt was not in use, lodge in between the bottom of the seat and the door,
necessitating that every time i enter the car and, by reflex, as one does, close the door, i
immediately open the door again because with the door closed the buckle is out of reach,
but now, something has happened and the buckle sits higher and is easily reachable with
the door closed. i'm thankful that i don't know what happened but that something
definitely happened. i'm thankful for mystery, especially when it provides solutions.
i'm thankful for the keanu reeves "whoa" epiphany that moonlight is just sunlight
reflected by the moon, which seems obvious but is not something i'd ever thought about.
i'm thankful for the last epiphany i had like this, while killing time in a mall in southern
california, where, beside a decorative pool surrounded by stone statues of dolphins, a
plaque informed me that "pacific ocean" means "peaceful ocean." i'm thankful to be
occasionally mystified by the obvious.
12/29/15
i'm thankful that yesterday evening while i was getting ready to make a simple dinner of
pasta and salad, d reminded me that today was trash and recycling day, which i had
forgotten about in the loose time of a long vacation. i'm thankful that since it had been
raining all day for days and was still raining that d offered that we could drive over to the
recycling center downtown later in the week to get rid of our recycling rather than me
have to deal with all of it in the rain. i'm thankful for her thoughtfulness and thankful
that i agreed, even though this (packing the recycling into her small car, transporting it,
getting it out of the car into the industrial receptacles of the recycling center) seemed like
it might be its own kind of ordeal. i'm thankful, though, that when i took the trash down
to the street (because it had to go out even if it was raining outside, because we had too
much), i found that, contra to what it seemed when inside looking out into the dark wet
world, it was really actually barely raining. i'm thankful that it was 50 degrees out, the last
gasp of the warm front that we've been living inside for the past little while, and that by
going out in the rain to take out the trash, which i did not want to do, i got to experience
that kind of temperature outside for the last time for a long time, probably.
i'm thankful that, because of the warmth and the lightness of the rain, i decided to go
ahead and take care of the recycling too, to save us the trip to the recycling center. i'm
thankful that d, who i called to from the mud room off the kitchen where i had stacked all
the recycling, agreed to take over the making of dinner so that i could prepare, arrange,
and transport the recycling. i'm thankful that the large stack of cardboard boxes left over
from christmas (i'm thankful for all of their contents, and for the love each represents)
broke and folded easily into flat planes that i could stack and insert into the recycling
bins. i'm thankful that d had collected the miscellaneous scraps of paper and tape and
bubble wrap and et cetera into grocery bags, which made it easy to carry them to the bins;
i'm thankful for the satisfying sounds that beer bottles and crunched aluminum cans
make when tossed into a container from a short distance. i'm thankful for the fun one can
find if one tries, even in a light rain, in trying to pack large quantities of disparate
materials as efficiently as possible into small plastic containers (i'm thankful that i can
enjoy this because of the privilege of it not being something that i rely on for my
livelihood). i'm thankful that the ground was so waterlogged from days of rain that i
decided not to take my normal trash day route through the yard on the left side of the
house, but instead to go down the gentle slope of the asphalt driveway on the right side of
the house. i'm thankful that this meant i avoided getting stuck by the burs of the pest of a
plant in the yard that i always run into unawares on trash day (i'm thankful that by
checking whether the correct spelling is "bur" or "burr," i found out what kind of plant it
is: burdock). i'm thankful that taking the trash and recycling on my normal route through
the yard on the left side of the house requires three trips (trash, recycling bin 1, recycling
bin 2), whereas, with this new route, i realized i could pull the two recycling bins during
the same trip like sleds down the asphalt driveway, thus saving myself an entire trip.
i'm thankful to find ways in both my personal and professional life to be more efficient,
because there is a real satisfaction in achieving greater mastery of tasks (i felt such a
childish burst of joy pulling the bins down the asphalt driveway, slick and shining in the
rain, the journey terminating like a kind of water slide in a bed of crunchy gravel at the
border of the street), even as i worry, on the other hand, that making myself more
efficient is just playing into the hands of an ideology that i find toxic, hands that close a
little more around our throats every day. i'm thankful, i guess, somewhat darkly
ironically, that i have been told many times how the departmental office where i work
used to have two full time service staff and one part time support staff member, but, since
i was promoted from the part time position to the full time position, they have not needed
to hire a new part time support staff member because i'm "so good at my job." i'm
thankful for the complex feelings i experience in relation to this comment, both the way i
enjoy the praise for my abilities, which i work hard to hone, and yet am disturbed that my
efficiency has removed a job opportunity from the world (one that i desperately needed
when i applied for it and was so thankful to receive) and that i, as a worker, have not
benefited from my efficiency, the fruits of which have instead been funneled back into the
larger organization (i'm thankful for the quiet compassion of my manager as she
explained, when i tried to make instrumental the fact that my efficiency had eliminated
the need for a part time position in a perfunctory annual performance review, that she
would love to give me a raise and thought i deserved one but had no ability to do so,
thankful for how transparently and completely she unpacked the regulations and
procedures that prevented her from doing so. i'm thankful that with other managers this
might have felt like lip service or excuses, but that it felt like a sad kind of honesty from
my manager.).
i'm thankful to think of the city sanitation workers who come to our street so early in the
morning on tuesdays that, even though i get up early in the morning every day, i have to
take the trash and recycling out on monday night to have it ready for them in time. i'm
thankful for my maternal grandfather, who is not a perfect person, and who worked first
as a trucker (bringing the cardboard boxes and their contents to the buildings) and then
as a city sanitation worker (picking up the cardboard boxes and their contents from the
buildings) and who is now retired and living out on a small piece of land in the country.
i'm thankful that even though he is not a perfect person, and was not a great father to my
mother the way that my mother is a great mother to me and my father is a great father to
me, he was always kind to me when i was a child and i'm thankful that he showed love in
the ways that he was able, which mostly involved gifts (in cardboard boxes and palmed
wads of cash) rather than words. i'm thankful to remember our most recent trip to my
hometown in north carolina for the funeral of my maternal grandmother, when my
brother and my father and i spent a genuinely pleasant time with him in his garage refuge
swinging a ring hanging from a piece of fishing line tied to the ceiling across the garage to
try to catch it on a hook attached to the wall several feet away. i'm thankful for the way
that we all shared strategies for better swings, for the right angle and speed, and i'm
thankful how we were proud for each other when we got the ring close to catching on the
hook, whooping when it clanged against the hook. i'm thankful that i can't remember
whether any of us managed to accomplish the task and actually catch the ring on the
hook, but i'm thankful that doesn't really matter to whether it's a good memory or a bad
memory.
12/30/15
i'm thankful that i got lost on my bike ride yesterday. i'm thankful that my phone died
unexpectedly as i tried a new route in order to avoid the muddy trails i usually take and i
couldn't check a map, so i just had to make a guess and go in a direction and hope for the
best. i'm thankful that i biked for the first time through the tiny town of clear creek,
which had a little concrete block post office and an antique store. i'm thankful for the
sensation of feeling instinctively that i knew which way i was going, of predicting and
then gradually recognizing streets and landmarks. i'm thankful that i'm generally good at
orienting myself in space, and thankful that i felt confident in my route for quite some
time, but thankful that at a certain point i got turned around in an indistinct suburb and
had no idea where i was. i'm thankful that i had brought a coconut cream pie flavored
protein bar in my backpack and that i stopped to eat it while figuring out where to go. i'm
thankful i finally came upon a road i knew the name of, but wasn't sure which way was
north and which way was south (i needed to go north). i'm thankful that i biked one way
for a while and pushed up to the top of a hill and saw just trees and more road in the
distance and decided that i was probably going the wrong way and that i should turn
around. i'm thankful for the hills here, even if they are punishing sometimes to try to
climb, because of the beautiful (and, in this case, useful) vistas they frame. i'm thankful
that i made a decision and turned around and went back down the road the other way. i'm
thankful that though for a long time nothing looked familiar to me on the road and i
wondered more and more whether i was going the wrong way, eventually, a sense of deja
vu started to seep into my perception of the space around me (the way the sidewalks were
elevated above ditches, the materials and colors of the apartment complexes), reminding
me of a time years ago when i got pleasantly lost while running in the blue sky mirage
heat of summer. i'm thankful that continuing along the road with increasing confidence
got me to a place that i knew which got me on the road home. i'm thankful for the
experience of coasting down a hill and seeing a familiar place in the distance and knowing
that's where i'm going next.
i'm thankful for the depth and breadth of the sadness i was stuck inside of yesterday
afternoon and evening after my bike ride. i'm thankful that maybe the sadness was
triggered by my fear of being lost on the bike ride and maybe it was triggered by our
family dog having surgery to remove a melanoma from her head (i'm thankful she's okay)
and maybe it was triggered by too much red wine at lunch (i'm thankful for how good it
tasted, though) but that maybe it wasn't triggered by anything at all, no proximate cause,
and there was nothing i could do to prevent it from enveloping me in its cloud. i'm
thankful to think of my brain as a weather radar map, the systems of emotions passing
like glitchy primary-colored ghosts over my mental landscape along trajectories and with
durations that can be guessed at but not known or controlled. i'm thankful to think of the
visual similarities between television weather radar maps and the choppily animated mri
slices of the brain which are used to try to tell us things about how and why we think and
feel. i'm thankful, even though it wasn't fun to feel like the sadness inside me, that it's
probably better than other bad feelings i've had in the past, like being afraid that i was
going to die, or being afraid of interacting with the world around me, or being afraid of
hypothetical things that might possibly happen in the feature, all which i used to feel all
the time and rarely feel (or feel as intensely) now (i'm so thankful for that). i'm thankful
for how the way that i sometimes feel sadness now makes me a little better able to
understand the way that d feels sadness, which i always used to try to approach, because i
love her and did not want her to suffer, as a concrete problem to be solved as quickly as
possible by the application of a technology (concrete solutions, medication, conversation,
exercise), like a support ticket i was trying to clear from the workflow of her mind. i'm
thankful that, though i didn't use to be able to understand why d "chose" to "stay inside"
feelings of sadness (though i am thankful, always, to gently tease her about her
adolescent love of emo music), i do understand it now, what the feeling is, how it feels
like there's only so much you can do to climb out (though i'm thankful for the times when
i can help her climb out).
i'm thankful that even though i was feeling very sad yesterday afternoon, i buckled down
and worked on a freelance project for a couple of hours in bed. i'm thankful that rather
than being a brat like i've been about my writing in the past, i accepted and implemented
my editor's revision instructions without any comment other than to wish him a happy
new year. i'm thankful, thinking of this, about how when i was sad in my early twenties,
even though, objectively, there were plenty of things in my life worth being sad about, my
sadness was almost always related to writing, how writing was going or how writing
wasn't going. i'm thankful to realize that writing now, whether in a professional context or
in the context of these notes, doesn't really make me sad or afraid anymore, at least not in
the same way or by the same order of magnitude. i'm thankful for what a huge and
wonderful change that is and how in retrospect it feels almost silly how serious i used to
take the question of whether i would or wouldn't be able to write a blog post. i'm thankful
that the feelings of sadness i experienced yesterday allowed me to experience this
epiphany as i wrote about it today.
i'm thankful to go through periods of sadness, most of all, because of the unbelievable
sweetness of the relief i feel when they end, the way that later yesterday evening, while
watching d navigate a labyrinthine dungeon in a link between two worlds, i took an easy
breath and then another and suddenly realized that i didn't feel sad at all anymore, that i
actually felt perfectly optimistic and okay and excited about the future. i'm thankful that i
slept well and woke up still feeling great, that i still feel great while i type these words. i'm
thankful that i don't suffer with sadness all the time like many people do and that i have
many days when i don't feel sad at all. i'm thankful for the yoga i did last night and the
meditation i did after that, for how even if sadness can't necessarily be immediately and
directly evaded or erased or resolved by targeted concrete solutions, it's still good to try
things because they can help. i'm thankful to think of that urban legend they used to tell
us as a fact in DARE in elementary school about how if you took acid, traces of it would
lodge in your joints and then, without warning, years later, you would bend your elbow or
knee the wrong way and be stuck in a horrifying acid flashback. i'm thankful for the way
that moving through poses and breathing loosens things in my body which usually makes
my mind feel looser as well.
i'm thankful to have watched d play through the final dungeon in a link between two
worlds, for the moment when we figured out that there were invisible bridges between
platforms that could only be seen using a lamp in the dark. i'm thankful for her intense
effort to try to pass a particularly difficult obstacle, which involved using a wand that
summoned large blocks of ice to create stones in a bed of lava that she could walk along
while avoiding being snatched up by a giant disembodied hand which floated above the
level, hunting her. i'm thankful for how she tried over and over and over to create the
stones to walk across the lava, even though it was hard to aim the stones to make them
land in the places she needed them to land to make a path in the lava; i'm thankful for
how close she would get sometimes before the stones would sink underneath her or the
hand would snatch her up and return her to the beginning of the level. i'm thankful that i
could cheer on every little bit of progress, every new solution she found. i'm thankful that,
past our bedtime, she eventually gave up for the night and then, a few minutes later, i
heard her giggling uncontrollably from the other room. i'm thankful that she told me she
had found the solution, which is that what we thought was a platform at the edge of the
lava where she would begin to try to build her bridge of stones was actually, the whole
time, a raft, and that there was no need to build a bridge, all she had to do was use the raft
to ride across the lava to the goal. i'm thankful that sometimes solutions are that simple.
12/31/15
i'm thankful for the episode of the song exploder podcast i listened to about wilco's song
"magnetized." i'm thankful to learn about jeff tweedy's songwriting process, about how he
makes what he calls "mumble tracks" where, over an instrumental snippet that seems like
it might be something, he mumbles through a melody and then listens to it over and over,
looping a single bar, while he searches, like someone doing a jigsaw puzzle, to find words
with syllables that match the rhythm. i'm thankful for his belief that sense will always
follow sound in this way, that inherently meaning will accrete and attach itself to the
words somewhere in the process. i'm thankful to think about my process in writing these
notes, about the hope that this sturdy mechanical mantra i start sentences with and the
rambling strands that hang from it also get coated sometimes in the glitter of meaning.
i'm thankful for the song, which i hadn't listened to, for the bouncy abbey road tom fills
and vocal ahs and oohs, for the use of noise gate as an expressive instrument rather than
a studio tool, and for the warmth of the love that's expressed over the quick chorus chord
turnaround when he sings, about what his love for his wife feels like, "i sleep underneath
/ a picture that i keep of you next to me / i realize i'm magnetized."
i'm thankful that fifteen minutes before our friends were supposed to come over for
dinner and drinks yesterday evening, as a i trimmed green beans in a kitchen, my temples
felt like they were being squeezed by needle nose pliers. i'm thankful that this is probably
because i was hungry after spending the afternoon prepping for dinner and helping to get
our house cleaner than it has ever been and forgot to eat a snack. i'm thankful that i don't
often get headaches, even if that meant this one felt extra bad in comparison to the
baseline of how my head feels. i'm thankful that i decided to have a whiskey and apple
cider cocktail to see if that would make my head feel better; i'm thankful that it was tasty,
even though it didn't really make my head feel better. i'm thankful for the sharp chef's
knife i got for christmas, which made trimming the beans easier and faster than ever. i'm
thankful that i did not cut my fingertips with the knife, like i did the first time i used it,
stupidly testing its sharpness (i'm thankful that d came in immediately and put bandaids
around the tiny cuts on my fingers).
i'm thankful our friends came over for dinner. i'm thankful for how much fun we have
talking to them and hanging out with them. i'm thankful for the pure sweet smile of their
young child. i'm thankful for the fun conversations we had with them, while sacked out
on the carpeted floor of the study as their child crawled around to and fro between us,
chasing balls and toys (i'm thankful for the wooden toy they had made of small sticks
knitted together in an abstract shape with wires, which made a satisfying xylophone
sound when jangled). i'm thankful that as we sat there chatting and playing, the nice
conversation distracted me from the fact that rising behind my headache was a wave of
horrible body conquering nausea. i'm thankful that d could entertain them for a while i
went to the kitchen to finish dinner prep, trying to pull myself together as i sauteed the
green beans, cooked sausages, pickled carrots, and reheated caramelized onions. i'm
thankful that when i felt as though i was going to throw up and was hanging on to my
composure by the tiniest thread, i called to d from across the house and she found me
some dramamine in the depths of our medicine cabinet for me to take. i'm thankful to
remember after i got a wisdom tooth pulled a couple of years ago, when i was rocked by
hydrocodone nausea so bad i couldn't move, and d came all the way home from work to
give me dramamine and i felt better enough to sit up.
i'm thankful that i was able to pull myself together enough to finish cooking and sit
sipping seltzer and trying to eat a banana for a few minutes while d and our friends had
dinner. i'm thankful that when eventually conversation amid the smells of food was too
much, i escaped to the bathroom to hold my head between my hands and try to breathe
and focus. i'm thankful for how compassionate our friends were, how i could hear them,
from across the house, inquiring about my welfare and saying that we could always hang
out another time if i wasn't feeling well. i'm thankful that d came to check on me once
and then a second time, and thankful that eventually i was able to splash water on my
face and feel centered enough to hold it together. i'm thankful that gradually i felt less
sick over the rest of the evening until i didn't feel sick at all anymore. i'm thankful that i
didn't have to call our night early and that we were able to have more fun conversations
about disparate topics including the fascinating process of lanolization, gossip about
people from our mfa program, the ravages of depression and eating disorders, matcha, the
ambient calm of baby einstein (i'm thankful that their baby was entranced by our
enormous television), our yoga practices, the difficulty of meditation, david mitchell and
rebecca solnit, marina abramovic, stupid stuff we did in college, and xeno's paradoxes,
among other things.
i'm thankful that we had a good time with them and plan to have more in the near future
and i'm also thankful that, once we closed the front door behind them, d and i were able
to shed the husks of our outward-facing selves and climb together into the warm couch
blanket of introversion. i'm thankful to think about how one of my fears about my
relationship with d when it first started was that, because i was spending so much time
with her, i had stopped reading the new yorker cover to cover every week. i'm thankful for
the retrospective silliness of how i thought this was a real serious thing to be worried
about back then. i'm thankful to recognize how stupid it is, when i'm in a shitty mood or a
bad place, or when i'm struggling in vain to concentrate on reading or writing or doing
some kind of task, to not value the gentle pressure of her hand touching my hip or the
side of her body pressing against me in bed or a warm kiss on the cheek or to hear her
making small noises of laughter or delight or shock in response to something she's
experiencing. i'm thankful to enshrine that stupidity, to frame it in words here to help me
remember that experiencing these little daily things is the most precious gift i can receive
in the world and is always more important than whatever else i think i'm supposed to be
doing. i'm thankful for the extreme version of this feeling i experience sometimes when
we're having sex and i'm coming, which is this dopamine epiphany of "why the fuck do i
think anything else in the world matters besides this? how can writing a song or reading a
book be better than this? why do i care about anything else outside of this feeling?"
i'm thankful, so thankful, for the way my love is crystallized in such moments, even if i'm
also thankful for the worth and the meaning that i am able invest in the things of the
world at other times. i'm thankful that's true for d, too—i'm thankful for this comic she
made yesterday afternoon, which made me laugh harder than any "shouts and murmurs."
i'm thankful that watching a youtube video yesterday, i realized that the old 90s ballad
lyric which i always thought was "i'll be the greatest man of your life" is actually "i'll be
the greatest fan of your life." i'm thankful that i get to be the greatest fan of someone's
life. i'm thankful that magnets work.
1/1/16
i'm thankful for the gaudy gold-colored foil around the screw-top of the cheap spumante
we bought to celebrate the year. i'm thankful for the leftover caramelized onions we had
on our hot dogs at dinner last night. i'm thankful that, because we were having guests, i
really caramelized the onions for like an hour and a half, coming back to the stove over
and over to see tiny hints of the transformation, rather than the lazy rushed sautee i
usually do. i'm thankful for the chocolate chip cookies d made, which, even if a little too
hardened by the oven and then the air, are still transcendent. i'm thankful that i ate
slightly too many of them but not way too many, which is what i usually do when she
makes them. i'm thankful that d got slightly drunk (but not way too drunk) on spumante
and then whiskey, because she is even more adorable than usual when she is slightly
drunk.
i'm thankful for d's sister, e, who schooled me on the value of selena gomez's album a few
months ago in the car in southern california when i said that "good for you" was catchy
and fun but i wasn't really interested in the album i'm thankful that she responded,
incredulously, "but what about 'me and the rhythm'?!?! that album is great!" i'm thankful
for "me and the rhythm," which is excellent, and the album, which is, in fact, great (and so
necessary given how lugubrious (if occasionally beautiful) honeymoon was) and which
we danced to in the kitchen while making dinner last night. i'm thankful for how lucky i
feel that d's sister e is now my sister, and thankful for how much more fun our trip to
southern california was because of her. i'm thankful for how she played us the erykah
badu cover of "hotline bling" which she liked better than the original and i knew what it
was and she thought i was cool for knowing that (i'm thankful that even if i know it, i like
the mantra of the original better than the erykah badu cover, though i am also thankful
for the beauty of the andre 3k duet that was "hello"). i'm thankful to remember our long
family car trip to LA and how we passed the time by playing would you rather. i'm
thankful to remember the question "would you rather get paid $5000 for cutting off your
own finger or pay someone $5000 to keep the finger?" and how e and d were surprised
that i would cut off my own finger for $5000, so much so that while i was in the
mcdonald's bathroom, they continued discussing it and then confronted me with the
possibility once i came out that what if i had to cut it off slowly with a dull blade rather
than a single quick chop with a butcher's knife, which convinced me to change my mind.
i'm thankful for the trip we took to the library where we strip-mined the graphic novel
section. i'm thankful for public libraries and thankful for the free shopping sprees that
i've gotten to take part at in them since i was a child. i'm thankful for the graphic novels
i've read since: logicomix, an okay biography of bertrand russell; intro to camus, a better
biography of camus; and tokyo on foot, a beautifully drawn, if weightless and weirdly
arranged, travelogue. i'm thankful that my favorite comic artist, adrian tomine, put out a
great new book this year (i'm thankful for his book shortcomings, which is the first
graphic novel that made me understand that graphic novels could be worthwhile and
affecting). i'm thankful for the way that i can read a graphic novel in one sitting, though i
am also thankful for the narnia-esque power to enter and reside in a world that i get from
long novels.
i'm thankful for the bike ride that we took yesterday through our newly wintry town. i'm
thankful to have understood that d was right when she said i should buy heavier duty
gloves than the thin knit $5 ones i got at target. i'm thankful that after a time it felt like
my finger tips, then my fingers, then my hands were on fire from the sub-freezing cold
and wind as we biked north of town to denny's. i'm thankful that when i crashed my bike
turning into the parking lot of a gas station with a slightly too high concrete lip at its edge,
i fell into the parking lot rather than into traffic. i'm thankful that i didn't tear my clothes
or cut myself or do any serious damage, and thankful for the man standing outside of his
car drinking gas station coffee who checked to make sure i was okay. i'm thankful to d's
parents for giving us a gift card to denny's for christmas. i'm thankful for pancake syrup,
which i know is not the same as maple syrup and which i maybe like more. i'm thankful
for tiny gray-brown sausages which are probably packed with my RDA of sodium. i'm
thankful for softened pats of butter in small ceramic crocks.
i'm thankful that i don't really believe in new year's resolutions. i'm thankful to be able to
think about how i feel and what i want on a more granular level. i'm thankful to think
about the future, but in the context of the present, of the daily. i'm thankful to look back
on this year and the things that were good about it, though. i'm thankful that i got
married to d, which is the best thing that has ever happened to me. i'm thankful that i
finally worked hard with a doctor to get my mental and physical health in better working
order and thankful that i'm ending the year in so much better a place than i began it. i'm
thankful i'm working on finding a new job, even if i'm not really sure what i want that job
to be, and freelancing to build out my resume. i'm thankful for our trips to san francisco,
san diego, and LA, and how they made us better appreciate the small town in indiana
where we live. i'm thankful to think how happy we are here, at least for now, given that
neither of us was excited (understatement) to move to the midwest from the coasts. i'm
thankful we did move here, since otherwise we would have never met. i'm thankful for
what yoga and meditation have given to me this year. i'm thankful for all the great art and
books and movies and music i've experienced this year. i'm thankful that i started writing
these thank you notes. i'm thankful i'm going to stop writing this one now so that i can
get in front of a webcam and bow to d's family to ring in the new year.
1/2/16
[no entry]
1/3/16
i'm thankful that d likes the air plants that i got her for christmas. i'm thankful that air
plants can remove nutrients and moisture from dust, which feels poetic. i'm thankful that
the oyster mushrooms she is growing in a cardboard box in the kitchen are growing so
fast. i'm thankful to check in with them over the course of the day and see the changes in
their size and shape. i'm thankful for how this reminds me of the ferns that i am charged
with watering at the office. i'm thankful for how when i forget to water the ferns for too
long, i can tell because of how droopy their leaves get. i'm thankful for the fern across
from my desk, on top of the office mini-fridge, which gets particularly droopy and so is
my coal mine canary, but which, if i water it well in a morning when i notice its
droopiness, will spring back up by the end of the day, refreshed. i'm thankful to hope that
it and the other ferns have not died over christmas vacation, which is probably the longest
they have gone without me watering them since i started this job. i'm thankful for the line
in nymphomaniac about how trees may not be as obviously beautiful in the winter, naked
without their leaves, but that winter is the best time to examine them because it is then
that you can see the soul of the trees. i'm thankful for the idea, advanced by christian
slater's character, that everyone has one particular tree which matches their soul. i'm
thankful for the shot, near the end of volume 2, where charlotte gainsbourg's character
finds her soul tree twisting out of a rocky outcropping at the cliff edge of an alpine forest.
i'm thankful for the concept in that film of what it means to "demand more from a
sunset" than the average person and how it intertwines in my mind with a parable i
recently heard in another film, related by the ginger baker about jack bruce's bass playing
and his sense of time. i'm thankful for his argument, whether it's true or not, that jack
bruce is the kind of person who wakes up early and goes out to see the sunrise, sees the
sun come halfway above the horizon, and then turns around and goes home satisfied to
tell everyone that he's seen a sunrise. i'm thankful for the ecstatic grainy archival footage
of ginger playing drum solos in his heyday, his eyes closed to take in some kind of
sunrise.
i'm thankful for the occasional chirp of a bird outside the house. i'm thankful because
these chirps remind me pleasantly of how annoyed i got at the constant noise floor of the
crickets and cicadas in the summer and early autumn. i'm thankful for the peace of the
winter, even if that's a reflection of death and disappearance. i'm thankful to look out the
window and see a skin of frost on the grass in the yard. i'm thankful that i finally went
down into the basement to change our furnace filters, a task i have been putting off since
the beginning of vacation. i'm thankful that there were no wild animals down in the
basement and that though i had to push through dense nets of cobwebs, i didn't get bit by
any spiders. i'm thankful changing the furnace filters was a simple process and i regret
putting it off for so long and letting the task take up space in my brain.
i'm thankful for the knausgaard article about brain surgery. i'm thankful for the structure
and the returns and variations he plays, for his admission of his false nostalgia for life in
the communist era (something i have a tendency towards also), for his cartographic
descriptions of seeing the surface of the brain, and for his somewhat catty impressions of
a famous surgeon's personality. i'm thankful that the feeling lodged in my body after
reading the piece reminds me more than anything of how i feel after reading a john
mcphee profile, even though their working methods and subject positions and everything
are so opposed. i'm thankful for this passage:"i had looked into a room, unlike any other,
and when i lifted my gaze, that room was inside hasanaj’s brain, who lay staring
straight ahead under the drape in the larger room, filled with doctors and nurses and
machines and equipment, and beyond that room there was an even larger room, warm
and dusty and made of asphalt and concrete, beneath a chain of green mountains and a
blue sky. all those rooms were gathered in my own brain, which looked exactly like
hasanaj’s, a wet, gleaming, walnutlike lump, composed of 100 billion brain cells so tiny
and so myriad they could only be compared to the stars of a galaxy. and yet what they
formed was flesh, and the processes they harbored were simple and primitive, regulated
by various chemical substances and powered by electricity. how could it contain these
images of the world? how could thoughts arise within this hunk of flesh?"
i'm thankful for this vox explainer about why the passage of time seems to accelerate as
we get older. i'm thankful for the various theories that are advanced in the article,
including the idea that time seems to move faster for adults than for children because
adults are busier than children. i'm thankful for this illustrative quotation from william
james: "each passing year converts some of this experience into automatic routine which
we hardly notice at all, the days and weeks smooth themselves out in recollection, and
the years grow hollow and collapse." i'm thankful for the hopeful note the end of the
explainer strikes, that perhaps breaking routines and learning new things is one way to
lay sandbags against the erosion of time. i'm thankful to think that perhaps another
weapon against this acceleration is to find ways to focus more deeply on the present as
you experience it, to use your attention as a brake to slow motion. i'm thankful for the
gentle click of the keys as i type this sentence, for the rumble of the furnace down in the
basement pumping warm air up through the vents into the living room, for the occasional
chirp of a bird outside the house.